Alesse
The Alesse brand name has been discontinued in the U.S. If generic versions of this product have been approved by the FDA, there may be generic equivalents available.
Level 1 interactions:
amitriptyline
lorazepam
melatonin
Level 2 interactions:
metformin
prednisone
Symbicort (budesonide / formoterol)
Topamax (topiramate)
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “My doctor put me on Generic Alesse after I had experienced some bad side effects on YAZ (low sex drive, low mood). I have been on it for 9 months and my skin has gotten really bad. I have zero other side effects but my acne is HORRIBLE to the point where I am embarrassed to leave the house. I tried every topical treatment for the acne to no avail. I am engaged to be married and now I have to find another pill to try and clear my skin. This is not something I thought I'd be dealing with at 28 :(”
		

For Polycystic Ovary Syndrome: “This medication has been amazing for me. Before taking Alesse my cycles were so agonizing, I was constantly exhausted, I used to feel very unwell around ovulation and the week before my period. So far taking Alesse I’ve had no side effects other than a very mild amount of nausea during the first week. This has done wonders to regulate my cycles and mood. To my surprise it has also helped my sleep.”
		

For Birth Control: “At the beginning on Alesse I had no side effects! My acne was clearing and my periods were light and short. After been on this for 2 years I have noticed my anxiety and stress get really bad. I never really stressed about anything that bad or cry that much, but I feel like the slightest thing will cause me to cry. I also started to experience a lot of bloating and stomach aches.”
		

For Birth Control: “Works good but now I have severe depression :)”
		

  “I took this pill for about a month and a half. I noticed my periods got heavier with more cramping, and PMS symptoms showed no improvement either. My acne cleared up (but my skin was good before the pill). The biggest thing I noticed was that my hair was noticeably thinning a lot -- not visually, but I could feel it. I also noticed I was crying, hopeless and less motivated much more than ever before. Effective contraception is one of the only few good things that came out of this pill, but for me, the side effects weren't worth it. I'm going to try to go off and see if that helps.”
		

For Birth Control: “I took this birth control for a month which went well then I stopped taking it and then started taking it again and it’s been 2 months of continues chest acne that almost looks like a fungal, folliculitis. Stopping it tomorrow to see how things go.”
		

For Polycystic Ovary Syndrome: “I was prescribed Alesse for PCOS, and developed severe depression, crying almost every day for several months, to the point that I could hardly function. I also developed melasma (hyper-pigmentation / brown splotches) on my face. My doctor did not warn me about either of these possibilities, and I did not connect them to the pill at first. I was about to go on antidepressants AND use bleaching cream on my face when a friend who had been through something similar suggested I try going off the pill first. I did and the depression vanished within about a week and has not returned. The melasma took a few years to go away, but eventually did. (I have also found much better ways to manage the PCOS through herbs, diet &amp; exercise.)”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “Alesse was the first birth control I ever took. I was 18 and had been having horrible periods. Constant, painful cramps and heavy flow. My gynecologist suggested Alesse to make my period lighter. I bled for over a month!!! Not spotting. Full on heavy bleeding with horrible cramps. I eventually stopped and decided to deal with my period. At least I knew when it would end.”
		

For Birth Control: “I am in love with this birth control Alesse! It is the first one I have ever taken and I went on it because I would get such bad acne all over my cheeks especially around my period. There was never a time where my skin was clear and when it was better it would still have a bunch of scars until it would get horrible again. In the first week my skin got a little better, there was a little bit of cramping and mood swings but not too bad, in the second week it was breaking out (but not nearly as bad as the worst its been) and then in the 3rd week, almost perfect just scars to heal up. I'm on just over a month and my skin is literally perfect, just a couple scars left to heal and now and they can actually heal because my face isn't going to have another huge breakout the next day anymore!”
		

For Birth Control: “When I started taking Alesse the only side effects were feeling a bit nauseous for the first few days. I’ve now been on it for a month and a half and I’ve noticed increased mood swings, sadness, and irritability that I never experienced before taking Alesse. I’m also starting to experience a bit of depression (not sure if it’s related to birth control) I’ve gained a bit of weight and feel bloated/appetite has increased majorly. At times I also feel like my sex drive is lower. I’m going to continue until the 3rd pack, if I see no improvement consider switching to a non hormonal birth control.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been taking Alesse for about 4 months now and have been noticing major changes in my body. I didn’t think to associate it with my Birth Control until recently. After looking at the reviews, I know now that this has been the cause. I have experienced MAJOR weight gain recently – between bloat, water retention and swelling of my ankles. 
Besides that, my mood has also changed when I just cry for no reason at all. I was taking the generic version of Tricyclene-lo prior to this and will be switching back next month. 
I did however, notice that my periods were much lighter – only positive review that I could give.”
		

For Birth Control: “This pill was the worst.
I broke out in acne all over my body.
My breasts were so swollen and tender and the bloat never ever ever went away. Ever; don’t even ask about the weight gain.
The only thing it did was avoid pregnancy. 
DO NOT TAKE THIS.
Find another pill.”
		

For Birth Control: “After hearing negative comments regarding this pill Alesse, I was nervous to try it. However I found that it works great and all the symptoms everyone said would occur did not. Highly recommend!!!”
		

For Endometriosis: “Been on Aleese for 3 years, have a bit more acne but no hair loss. I’ve had a really good experience, no spotting if I take it properly and at the same time everyday, was only ever nauseous the first 3 days on it ever, know a lot of people on this pill this have had pretty good experiences!”
		

For Birth Control: “This birth control has made my anxiety unbearable, I used to not be a cryer but now I'll cry at the slightest thing that goes wrong. It has gotten so bad I forget the old me.”
		

For Birth Control: “No baby so far :)”
		

For Birth Control: “Avoid this birth control if you can. This was my first time going on birth control and my doctor prescribed it because it apparently was a good "starter birth control". But the side effects were terrible. I had the common ones, headaches, nausea, etc. But the worst of all was that it gave me TERRIBLE anxiety, on top of depression. I got into a really dark place and was getting around 1-3 anxiety attacks per week. I also experienced terrible leg cramping, to the extent that I paid the hospital a visit because it was so bad and there was the fear that it may be a blood clot. There are so many better birth control options out there.”
		

For Birth Control: “After trying a few types of birth control pill in high school, I settled on Alesse and have been using it most of my life. I liked that it was low estrogen which for me meant less mood swings than other pills. I also eventually started only getting periods once every 3 months, and short when I had them, which was nice. The downside was that I realized now after quitting Alesse that the levonorgestrel was causing me increased facial hair growth. If it's happened to you as well, now you know why!”
		

For Birth Control: “I started getting hair loss after taking this birth control medication in 2005. I had to stop taking it cause it was starting to affect my pancreasm, well that’s my doctor said in 2005. I didn’t take any birth control pills since. Now it’s 2019 and it’s my thinning hair gotten worse over the years.  This is awful I have low self confidence for many years.”
		

For Birth Control: “I think I've been on Alesse now for 3 or 4 years... can't really remember now. Prior to that, I was on a couple of other higher dose hormone pills since I was 19; 31 years old now!  I started this pill because of the lower dose of hormones. I was struggling with depression and anxiety at that point and thought the pill may be effecting that. I still have periods depression and anxiety, but I can control it better. My skin has changed though... I have super sensitive skin with painful cystic acne. It's not a lot of spots, but they are painful and stay for a really long time. I've had weight gain, but I don't know if that's more me or the pill. I've decided to come off the pill, which I'm kind of nervous to do! It's more about the fact that I've been on it for almost 13 years and I want to see what I'm like off of it. Right now, I would say that I would go back to on it, because I don't find that side effects that bad, but we'll see in the future after I've been off it for a while.”
		

For Birth Control: “I started Alesse 28 in December of 2018. I was put on it by my doctor to help regulate my excruciating periods (so bad I'm on prescription painkillers). The first 3 months they were still just as bad as ever causing me to miss classes, my acne however cleared up. Since then they have caused me mood swings, depression, worsened anxiety and countless baby scares. My periods are light and short, but still very very painful. I would not recommend unless you enjoy scaring both yourself and your boyfriend every few months with random and confusing unwarranted pregnancy scares. Side effects also consist of sleepless nights, leg cramping, migraines, a non-existent sex drive, and nausea which is great. I've been lucky not to have weight gain, but the bloating is absolutely terrible, it starts early and lasts all day. Definitely going to ask my doctor about switching pills or just going to tough it out, I would recommend painful heavy periods over this any day.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on birth control for just under 10 years and am still taking Alesse. The first 3-5 years were TriCyclen Lo, but then I got my period for over a month straight and my doctor recommended switching to Alesse.

The first day I took it, I felt incredibly nauseous. This went away after a day or two. During my time on this medication I rarely experienced spotting, my periods were very light (about 2-3 days long, never required more than a regular-sized tampon), and while I didn't have bad acne in high school, I did get fewer zits while on both TriCyclenLo and Alesse than I did in high school. 

I am about to try getting a copper IUD, though, because I've been experiencing some depression, anxiety and low libido, and think they could be caused by birth control. I may also have gained some weight but not sure what that's attributable to.”
		

For Birth Control: “Well where to start. Thankfully I have been off of this for almost two years now. But looking back at photos I remember something very prominent. Hair loss. 
My hair was receding like crazy on both sides of my head. 
6 months after I stopped taking it, the hair thankfully started to grow back. It's shorter and thin, but it's enough to cover my scalp. Be very careful... This is the first birth control I have ever been on that I experienced this kind of side effect.”
		

For Birth Control: “I tried the generic brand of Alesse called AlySensa 28 for 3 months and I can safely say it's been the absolute worst 3 months of my life. 

I experienced almost all possible side effects, painful cramping, increased bleeding, headaches, body pain, mood swings, panic attacks, everything.

I also never had this birth control actually regulate my period, my period came when it wanted and was just super heavy, and incredibly painful and had some major mood swings which is not even close to normal for me.

Although, I didn't get pregnant so there's that.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on Alesse for 12 years and it has been great. No pregnancy scares, no spotting, very minimal cramps, my skin was not affected. My period would only last 2-3 days and was not very heavy. I would recommend Alesse for sure.”
		
6.6
6.0
5.2
4.5
2.0
Endometriosis
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
Birth Control
Abnormal Uterine Bleeding
Ovarian Cysts
Summary of Alesse reviews
5.2
