Apri
Apri is a combination birth control pill containing female hormones that prevent ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary).  Apri also causes changes in your cervical mucus and uterine lining, making it harder for sperm to reach the uterus and harder for a fertilized egg to attach to the uterus.
Level 1 interactions:
clonazepam
melatonin
Level 2 interactions:
Lamictal (lamotrigine)
levothyroxine
metformin
prednisone
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “I have been on this pill for about a year to help with break through bleeding and horrible cramps. It took about 6 months but no more break through bleeding. It makes me have irregular periods but I don't mind because this is the first pill, injection, patch of any kind that has stopped my awful cramps. I did gain some weight but it is all worth it to not be in pain.”
		

For Birth Control: “I started this Apri birth control pill when I was 18 and loved it. I didn’t notice/have any side effects. After being on it for about 6 years, I started getting recurrent yeast infections and break through bleeding before every period. I decided to stop taking the pill, due to several reasons with the intention of getting an IUD eventually. I realized after stopping this pill that I had zero sex drive at all while taking this - like zero. I wasn’t very sexually active before taking the pill, so I thought what I was feeling was normal. I now realize this pill heavily suppressed my sex drive. Also a few weeks after stopping this, I noticed a small bald spot on the back of my head and have also noticed hair thinning/loss. It’s common after stopping the pill and doesn’t happen to everyone, but is something I’m still going through 4 months after stopping this and just wanted people to know it can happen and that you’re not crazy if it does!”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on this pill for a little over a year. Rarely break out and lighter periods.  This pill has worked great for me. No side effects for me.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been taking Apri for 4 months now. I first went on the pill to regulate my hormones and treat acne. After reading the reviews I was hesitant. The first month was a little rough (slight breakouts and mood swings) but it did get better with time. I have really liked the pill and my experience has been good.”
		

For Birth Control: “I started Apri about four months ago due to migraines during my period and pretty bad acne, especially leading up to my period. My pharmacist said this is what she takes and she takes it continuously so recommended I do that as well. For the first three months it worked great aside from my sex drive dropping to below zero. Not getting a period for the first time in nearly 15 years was amazing. It did help clearing my acne. 

However about a month ago I started spotting, had a couple mild headaches. Google said this was normal so didn't freak out. Last week I started bleeding much more heavily and having the WORST cramps I have ever had. Make me double over in pain cramps. Advil and Tylenol barely work. Came here looking to see if others have had this experience but instead found a ton of other symptoms people are experiencing as well. I'm afraid if I stop my migraines and acne will come back but I don't know if I can handle this for much longer.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have PCOS. My first gyno (useless) put me on Junel which gave me a period every other week and gave me a hemorrhagic ovarian cyst after 6 months.
Went off BC for a few years got a new Gyno who is AMAZING and she took a few days to get me the script for Apri (I think she was waiting for my blood work to come back, idk truly). 

I've been on it for 3 years and I've had a good time, I had no real symptoms other than my breasts increasing be one cup size. It also reduced the rate of facial hair growth for me, which is awesome, went from shaving ever other day to once every 4-6 days.
I'm moving on to Kyleena due to high blood pressure, but I’ll miss Apri.”
		

For Birth Control: “I got switched to this Apri birth control pill after breakthrough bleeding with Sprintec. I was on this pill for about 3 months and I stopped mid pack because I couldn’t wait another week. First month I was SO hungry that hunger pains would wake me up in the middle of the night and I’d have to go eat. I also would have terrible night sweats. I had anxiety before the pill, but I’ve been on an anxiety rollercoaster the last week which started off with an hours long panic attack. My blood pressure has been very high lately too. Not sure if that’s tied in with the pill, but I’ve been eating better and exercising, so you’d think it’d go down? Everyone is different, but I would recommend keeping an eye out for issues!”
		

For Birth Control: “I do not take any other meds, just Apri. I don’t take vitamins, nothing. Let me tell you what has changed. I have been on Apri for 2 months. I gained 11 pounds the first month. Mainly my fault because I had cravings. I have broken out so bad on my forehead and sometimes on my chin. I thought it was due to stress because lately I have had EXTREME anxiety and depression. Never been so stressed in my life and I couldn’t figure out why I was stressed. I have no reason to be. I am terrified to go to work, I have missed so much work the past month and a half due to anxiety. I’m up all night stressing so I call in. Then I’m stressed about calling in so I shut down and sleep all day. I can’t get out of bed, I’m so depressed and I have no reason to be. I started doing research on why I would be depressed and saw that BC can cause it. So I will definitely be stopping this pill so I can go back to normal.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been taking this birth control for 5 months now . I was kinda hesitant about taking them because I read reviews , but I’ve decided to give them a try . I can say this birth control saved me from getting pregnant. I still suffer from painful period pains . My weight is up and down . I was on levora before this one , but in overall thats all I can say”
		

For Birth Control: “My doctor switched me to Apri because the birth control pill I was using before is no longer available. I’ve only been taking it for a little over 1 month, but I’ve already had 2 migraines. I’ve never had a migraine before!! Also, my face is COVERED in acne and I’ve gained 5 pounds. My self-confidence has never been so low. I’m very unhappy with Apri :(”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been taking Apri for about 6 months now. For about 4 of those months, I have spotted heavily the week before my period, so basically I feel like I have my period for two weeks in a row. I asked my doctor about this and she said it is normal because I started the pill recently. I feel like by 6 months this shouldn't still be happening. Does this happen to anyone else on this pill?”
		

For Birth Control: “I took Apri for 5yrs. First 2yrs were great - light periods, skin cleared up etc. However everything slowly started to change. 2018 I found myself constantly worried, feeling like walls were caving in on me. My anxiety climbed everyday. Fell into a deep depression where I contemplated suicide. Started having violent thoughts - wanting to hurt those around me. Physical changes - gained 30 pounds in 2yrs, skin started to get greasy. I would sleep 12+ hours &amp; still not have energy. Mood swings. Crying daily - not able to control my emotions. I decided enough was enough. I stopped taking Apri immediately. It has now been 2 months since then - I no longer cry daily, mood is significantly improved, skin is less greasy. My sleep schedule is learning to regulate itself, I have more energy. Apri for the first 2yrs was great. However, somewhere along the way that changed. It's possible that in the time I was getting older, my inner body started to change and Apri just no longer worked for me.”
		

For Birth Control: “if you are prone to anxiety or depression please be very careful while taking this Apri birth control pill. The first couple of months I felt very nauseous and would have the worst cramps around my period not to mention it made my flow heavier. I would get awful headaches the days leading up to my periods as well. I had anxiety before I started this pill but when I started to take it it escalated very quickly. I have been on this pill for a year now and it took until now for me to realize that it was making me lose my mind. I felt completely out of control in my thoughts and was making my anxiety spiral. I am now off of it and I feel like myself again. Be careful!!!”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on Apri for about 4 years now. I've never had any serious reactions/symptoms. If you're seeing other people's stories about their struggle taking this pill please remember that everyone is different! Symptoms vary! It's been a long time but I believe I was slightly nauseous for a few days when I first started Apri but since then no problems at all.”
		

For Birth Control: “Took one month of Apri in preparation for IVF frozen embryo transfer and it has been horrible for my mood. Every night I took the pill at 9pm and within 1.5 to 2 hrs my mood plummeted and stayed that way throughout the following day. I haven't been sleeping well, lots of laying in bed thinking. I just took my last pill last night and today am in such a horrible mood. It has been over a week I have not wanted to do anything during the day and been in nearly nonstop bad mood. I feel depressed, also had breast tenderness the past week or two and wanting lots of junk food. Honestly the depression/mood side effects were worse on my body than any of the hormones I was on during my 3 IVF cycles. Really do not recommend this drug and disheartening to see many others talking about similar mood changes.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on Apri for a good 6 months, only bad thing about it is I get nipple and breast tenderness. I don't have any crazy side effects and fortunately have had no weight gain either.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been taking Apri since I was 18 and I never had cramps or headaches during my period. Over the last year I have noticed such a change when taking this birth control. I have nausea and terrible migraines during my period that I cannot even do anything.  Also, I get crazy hot flashes as well. I’m in my late 20s so I am guessing my hormones have changed and this pill just isn’t doing it anymore. I haven’t really ever had issues with the anxiety/depression like others have(thankfully), but I do notice a huge change in my mood when I am on my period and not taking this birth control. I think the fluctuation in hormones just messes me up for a few days. I would recommend for people, but like any medication you need to just be self aware of how it is making you feel.”
		

For Birth Control: “This pill makes my anxiety spin out of control. I don’t get panic attacks like I do with other pills, but I worry nonstop. I worry about everything from my dogs to getting in a car accident. I will lay awake at night worrying about one thing after another. I always feel a sense of doom.  It also makes me feel very tired and almost drugged... it’s hard to get out of bed in the morning. 

I haven’t gained any weight, I lost a couple pounds but also changed my diet so not sure if it was the pill or not. My boobs are always extremely sore. It cleared my skin aside from the occasional zit here and there. 

This isn’t the worst pill I’ve ever taken but anyone with a predisposing to anxiety should watch it carefully. I get panic attacks on other pills and feel almost on the verge of that with this one.”
		

For Birth Control: “After 10 months of debilitating night sweats and sleep disturbances my doctor finally pinpointed it to Apri. Apparently this is a very common side effect which this medication. It also gave me horrible anxiety. There are plenty of other birth controls out there. Steer clear of this one!”
		

For Birth Control: “please stay away from this brand. After ONE week of taking Apri my relatively clear skin started breaking out like crazy all over my face. It made me so so depressed and constantly hungry. I stopped taking it after two weeks thank goodness I realized what it was doing to me early on, so it didn't get worse.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on Apri for 4 months and I plan to get off it after this month. It’s ok. It made my periods lighter but I had some mild spotting every month around day 15 or so that would last 3 days. I have zero sex drive so it works as birth control in that way!  The worst for me though has been the bloating. I’m such a slim person I don’t even recognize my own body. I’m 5 pounds heavier 4 months later. My first month on it I couldn’t even button my pants.”
		

For Birth Control: “I had an abortion August 21st and have been using this birth control since then. I bled for 5 weeks straight afterward even with the pills, but it could have been due to the procedure. I skip my placebo pills and end up bleeding throughout the next pack. My first few weeks on the pills I tried to commit suicide due to my depression - that could’ve stemmed from the abortion as well but I’m not sure. No major weight gain nor acne so that’s a plus but overall I would recommend seeking another brand of birth control.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been taking Apri since November of 2018. This is my first time ever being on birth control. During the first month, I was experiencing dizziness. I’m assuming because i would take the pill in the morning without anything on my stomach. When I switched my dosage to the evening (I’ve eaten by that time) the dizziness left. It’s very effective. My only issue is my weight. I’ve never had an issue losing weight, but I could gain weight rather quickly. It’s like I’m unable to lose weight. I’ve been Vegan for almost a month now, and I haven’t she’s a pound. I believe it’s due to this birth control. Since, i do believe it’s due to that, I’m going to stop this brand and method. I truly wish I didn’t have an issue losing weight because it’s very effective.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on Apri from 2007-2019 and had no issues until 2018. My periods were about 5 days long and not super heavy, I gained no weight besides in my boobs, and everything was peachy! Starting in 2018 I started bleeding randomly throughout my active weeks and having extremely heavy periods on my placebo weeks (bleeding through a super tampon in an hour) and had a ton of clots. I'm not sure if my bodies hormones started changing with age or what, but it was a great 11 year run before I had a single issue!”
		

For Birth Control: “Let me tell you that the first couple months of Apri were BAD. I had trouble sleeping, nausea, very tender breasts among other things, but the worst part was the depression and anxiety. I would cry pretty much every day for absolutely no reason. I lost a lot of motivation to do anything. It was pretty miserable, but I decided to stick it out for a couple months hoping that these symptoms would go away, and they did. I’ve now been on this birth control for about 6 months and I am very happy with it. It regulates my period which is the main reason I went on birth control because my periods were consistently 10 days long and very irregular, sometimes I’d have a 2 week cycle, sometimes 2 months. Now I get a 5 day period, exactly every four weeks, it’s great. I do still get cramps but they are not as bad as they were before I went on apri. I would recommend this birth control if you are prepared for a rough first couple months.”
		
5.4
Birth Control
