Aviane
Aviane (ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel) is a combination birth control pill containing female hormones that prevent ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary). Aviane also causes changes in your cervical mucus and uterine lining, making it harder for sperm to reach the uterus and harder for a fertilized egg to attach to the uterus.
Level 1 interactions:
amitriptyline
clonazepam
Level 2 interactions:
Lamictal (lamotrigine)
levothyroxine
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “I've been on this Aviane pill for about 1.5-2 years now and nothing had changed other than my period is regulated. My flow is extremely heavy for the first couple of days. My period usually lasts 5 days. I have really bad cramps to the point where I can't concentrate on what I am doing. My acne went away and my face is pretty clear but that's the only good thing. I am trying another birth control next month to see if it will make it lighter and have fewer symptoms. Aviane 28 isn't that bad and I will switch back if the other pill does not work out for me.”
		

For Birth Control: “I just went on this birth control Aviane a few weeks ago and immediately suffered nausea for the first several days. As soon as that stopped I had the worst acne I have ever had in my life.  It has turned me into an emotional wreck where I cry for no reason. I know they say give it a few months, but I’m done with hormonal birth control this is the second kind I have taken and both ruin my life. It’s worse than being pregnant.”
		

For Birth Control: “The first birth control that I’ve been prescribed and no problems whatsoever. At first, I was skeptical because of the common side effects and the negative reviews, but this brand has made my periods shorter and lighter (and no babies haha). The only side effect I have gotten is my boobs growing in size, but I ain’t got a problem with that lmao. I would highly recommend giving it a try :) *I’ve been on it for a little over 3 months now*”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been using this birth control for 6 months now, the first and second month this pill made me extremely sick by the 3rd month I was okay it then gave me really bad acne wish I’ve never had, it did eventually go away but also by the 3rd month  “it gave me a horribly low libido, I’m like the Sahara desert causing me to have very painful sex. I have try all kinds of libido boosters but nothing works.”
		

For Birth Control: “Taking this birth control made me feel like I was going crazy. My mood swings were horrible and I was so irritable. I was so depressed while on it and it also gave me back acne. I also feel like I got way more yeast infections while I was on it.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on this pill (Aviane) for almost 4 months, and so far have had a pleasant experience! I’m not pregnant, have minimal cramps along with light and shorter periods. No noticeable weight gain or other side effects, just sometimes some nausea if I eat right before bed along with taking it. But overall recommend:)”
		

For Birth Control: “My experience with this Aviane brand of birth control was make me gain a lot of weight, mood changes a lot, sad all the time and hair falling out”
		

For Birth Control: “Made me extremely depressed and sensitive, but not pregnant so that's a positive. Just very depressed, and my blood pressure went up too.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on this Aviane birth control for 8 months now and it’s made my PMS symptoms and depression soooo bad. Like a week before my period I feel like I’m going insane. I feel like every month it makes it worse and worse. Honestly I don’t think I can take this pill anymore it’s wrecking my mind. It always made me gain weight and my boobs are sore 24/7.”
		

For Birth Control: “This birth control was awesome. It's very hard for me to go on birth control because I am sensitive to hormones but this one was perfect. Only side effect I had was sore breast but it wasn't that serious for me. I'm on Lessina now so I no longer take it (they are related). It's perfect too but I don't have sore breast on it.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on another birth control for over a year and it was fine but it gave me too much depression. I switched to the Aviane and the past two months haven’t been that great. My acne is the worst it has ever been in my life. I had some really bad periods in the beginning. The worst part for me is that the Aviane has caused be to gain ten pounds in two months. I’ve weighed the same weight for the past three years. My mood has improved significantly on this pill but I hate my appearance so much now I don’t know if it’s worth it. I kind of want to quit hormonal birth control altogether now, it’s been a tough experience.”
		

For Birth Control: “I'm on Aviane for birth control - I don't have any kids, my skin is mostly clear, I haven't had any weight gain. It doesn't seem to help much with cramping but I only have my period every few months now anyway (by choice). Personally I haven't had a single negative side effect from this in the 3 years I've been taking it”
		

For Birth Control: “IF I COULD GIVE AVIANE A ZERO I SOOO WOULD. I had the best skin before I took this... beautiful skin and I am not exaggerating this stuff made me break out to THE MAX. I now have severe acne and have had it for months now, it’s so bad that I don’t wanna go anywhere. I went to the dermatologist and I’m now on antibiotics and prescribed medicine to PUT on my face.  This is TERRIBLE I would tell NO GIRL/WOMAN to EVER EVER take this birth control”
		

For Birth Control: “THIS WAS THE WORST BURTH CONTROL I HAVE EVER BEEN ON. I am honestly stopping birth control because this stuff gave me the worst mental breakdown of my life. I stopped taking it and immediately started bleeding after, I have gotten acne where I have never had it before and I have had the worst flare up of BV in my life.... not even antibiotics helped. Now I suffer from severe cramps and stuff and this made things worse.... I have never been laid out in bed because of cramps before this medication.... 100% DO NOT RECCOMEND!!!!”
		

For Birth Control: “This pill Aviane works as a birth control, and it made my periods super short and super light, and cramps disappeared. That being said, there were A LOT of cons associated with this. Headaches, nausea, weight gain, ACNE ACNE ACNE (my skin was clear before this) and crazy anxiety, depression and mood swings.
I would not recommend. Going to switch back to Ortho Cyclen.”
		

For Birth Control: “Switched to Aviane from Lutera. Terrible mistake. First, my period was longer than normal (8-9 days). Second, I have fluid retention and bloating that kills my sex drive so I don't even know how the actual medication affects my libido. My skin is now oily and uneven with increased acne on my shoulders and back. My weight was steady and only varied about 2 pounds on any given day until I started this junk. Avoid it. Don't do it. Switching back to Lutera and throwing this out. I would rather be pregnant than deal with this medication.”
		

For Birth Control: “I recently got switched to this birth control as a trial for my mood swings. And the first month of taking the pill, everything was fine until it was time for my period. my period was abnormally light but HORMONAL ACNE CAME BACK HARD. I wake up to one to two cystic pimples a day and it is so hard to keep under control even after period week, it keeps on coming and it’s making me stress out. Nothing has changed besides acne which is a BIG FACTOR. Getting switched to my old bc pills ASAP. Truly debating to stop taking these pills for the time being”
		

For Endometriosis: “My endometriosis was diagnosed 2 years ago. 1 year ago, I started experiencing pain during my ovulation too. My doctor recommended Aviane because has few side effects. The first weeks I experienced mild headaches and nausea but the symptoms didn't bother me. I'm regular but I didn't have my period during the 1st month of taking the pill. My doctor's recommendation, I would only take hormones and not the placebo pills at all over  for 3 months. After a few weeks, my period came, more days than usual with a lot of pain. It wasn't abundant but it wasn't spotting either. The pain during ovulation was not reduced, the headaches are the worst and the breast pain is bad. I have mood swings, not depressing (anger episodes) and I had a vaginal worst infection ever, something very strange for me. With this coronavirus around, I was unable to see my doctor. I decided to stop taking the pills, in my case the pain is worse than before. Maybe, pills needs more time to adjust, but not thanks.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on Aviane for several months now. My period used to be like clockwork. Not with Aviane. I have a much-prolonged period. Sometimes it comes every 2-3 weeks. I cannot predict my period anymore, which I've never experienced with other pills (btw I've been on BC for 20+ years). On my next annual check-up, I am definitely asking my doctor to put me back to old ones.”
		

For Birth Control: “I honestly liked this pill Aviane the first few months. Now my period is out of whack...I just started my period AGAIN!!! I had a 1 week period about a month ago which is normal for now but also have a week period in between!! I have been on the pill for about 8-9 months now and am switching”
		

For Birth Control: “Been on this pill for about 3 years. All of my symptoms that I got when I first started this pill went away after 3 months. Now my period is like clock work. I know exactly when it will come. It works to purposely skip my period (skip placebo pills and just started the next pack right away) it worked well to not get a period until I had the placebos again. (my doctor recommended that I don’t skip more then three period in a row) I’ve  really enjoyed this pill but it’s the only one I’ve ever used. I’m not giving it a ten because I did have some emotional few first months when I started.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was only on this for 3 months,. I have never been on any kind of birth control before or since. My cycle was always regular 31 days before Aviane. After I stopped taking it I immediately became irregular and got diagnosed with PCOS. No one in my family has ever had pcos and I am a healthy 23 year old. I've only had 2 periods this whole year. I TOOK AVIANE FOR THREE MONTHS AND IT MESSED ME UP SO BAD I DEVELOPED PCOS!!! DO NOT TAKE THIS”
		

For Birth Control: “Don't know if this BC works, I just recently started it and right away I noticed a lot of acne. I have also been gaining a lot of weight and FAST. I don't know if all these 10/10, perfectly written reviews are real, seems like they're too good to be, yet everyone I talk to has issues with this birth control. One of my friends even got cysts as a result of taking this and I've just heard a lot of bad things - now I'm experiencing them first hand. I stopped taking this BC today, I don't recommend it.”
		

For Birth Control: “DO NOT USE! Not only does this birth control NOT WORK, it has horrible side effects, not just on me, but on my roommates who were also prescribed it. We went together and got prescribed Aviane for birth control.

Since being prescribed Aviane, I've been extremely irritable, hormonal, angry, depressed, and I am easier to lash out on people for no reason. I've gained A LOT of weight and worst of all, I'm covered in cystic acne all over my face, neck, back, and thighs - sometimes on my bum too - I'VE NEVER GOTTEN ACNE BEFORE TAKING AVIANE!!! and on top of that, I'm 1 month pregnant, even though I took the pill every day, on time, exactly how I was supposed to.

My roommates have experienced all the same things. One of them got pregnant 2 months after they started taking it, another gained almost 50 pounds in only a few months, and don't even get me going about all of our acne problems.

LADIES: DO NOT USE.  Aviane birth control doesn't work you could end up pregnant!!!!
”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on at least 10 different pills and this one Aviane has been the best one I’ve ever tried. Word of caution, my pharmacy substituted me with Larissa once and it made my hair fall out!”
		
6.9
6.3
5.9
4.3
1.0
Endometriosis
Birth Control
Abnormal Uterine Bleeding
Ovarian Cysts
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
Summary of Aviane reviews
6.2
