Azurette
Azurette is a combination birth control pill containing female hormones that prevent ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary).  Azurette also causes changes in your cervical mucus and uterine lining, making it harder for sperm to reach the uterus and harder for a fertilized egg to attach to the uterus.
Level 1 interactions:
clonazepam
lorazepam
Xanax (alprazolam)
Level 2 interactions:
lamotrigine
levothyroxine
metformin
prednisone
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on Azurette for a few years now and love it. My period is Friday to Tuesday with one half semi heavy day. Not enough to change a tampon early but heavier than most days. 
My emotions are def heightened and I cry a lot easier. I get hungry about an hour after taking it as well
But compared to how much of a crybaby I was on other pills - I’ll stick to this one.”
		

For Birth Control: “honestly wouldn’t recommend Azurette. I’m 20 y/o and I got the implant (nexplanon) about a year ago and I was totally fine. No periods, no mood swings, no cramps, nothing. It was wonderful. then, I started getting periods every other week. So my doctor put added azurette. I’ve been on it for 3 months. I cannot explain how bad my emotions and mood swings have gotten being on this pill. The smallest thing will hurt my feelings and I’ll burst into tears. Someone says something to me in a certain tone and I’m angry and it takes a while for me to calm down. I have a light period every day so it didn’t help in that area either. I can deal with all of the side effects besides the fact that I am completely chemically imbalanced and it’s the worst thing ever.”
		

For Birth Control: “Don’t really have a problem with Azurette honestly I’m more depressed but nothing too serious.”
		

For Birth Control: “Azurette The generic of mircette was ok . I had high high hopes . This was the least offensive emotionally of the combo pills , but it did restart my migraines and completely got rid of my sex drive . Like it annihilated  it . Also a lot of dryness so I moved on. Sorry azurette it’s a no go . Also constant spotting for a month and then some”
		

For Birth Control: “On Azurette I had TERRIBLE anxiety!!!! I had 8 day periods with heavy cramps on this birth control. I also broke out. Overall, 3/10 stars.”
		

For Birth Control: “I love this Azurette  birth control so much! I switched from another pill to this one &amp; I only wish I had sooner. I have zero side effects and my period is 3 light days.  No weight gain either like my other pill :)”
		

For Birth Control: “I love this pill . I switched from Sprintec which made my stomach hurt and hungry every single time I took it. Azurette gives me zero side effects. My period started like clockwork on the days 24 to 28 with the 4 estrogen only pills. Everyone’s different but this is one I absolutely love.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on this pill for 2 years but my stupid insurance forced me to switch pharmacies and now the pharmacy only has Kariva. I really like Azurette and while yea it completely killed my sex drive I honestly don't really care lol. The biggest thing it did was cure my debilitating periods. I used to have to take a day off work during my period but thanks to this I could actually go to work during my period again. The periods also got shorter and lighter. Hope the new pill keeps up the momentum. Once in a while though I'd have really bad mood swings but it wasn't common and I didn't gain weight or anything.”
		

For Birth Control: “Pro: I recommend Azurette. I started on birth control after I would get nauseous for two weeks out of every the month. That has been fixed. I've been on other birth controls and say this birth control worked best for me. I've been on it one year. I haven't had headaches. My sex drive has been great. I haven't lost or gained weight. 
Con: Occasionally sex will be uncomfortable. Its not bad enough to switch, because I've had too many problems with other meds.”
		

For Birth Control: “Cramps &amp; fatigue were my major issues with this pill. I switched from Orsythia to this after having some breakthrough bleeding on the other pill. I've been taking it for a year and have decided to switch to something else because of the cramping I got even when not on my period. I always felt like I had my period. Had several yeast infections and always felt kind of itchy. It did do a good job of stopping my period because I would take it for 3 months straight with no breakthrough bleeding then have a break. But I'd rather get my period every month than cramp all the time.. my skin did look amazing on this and no weight gain either. Also prevented pregnancy.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on this pill for about 9 months now. I have combination skin and I am prone to acne. I had cleared up and then broke out very badly within the first 3 months until my body got used to it. I now only get a few breakouts a week or so before my period, but they are all cystic acne along my jaw line. I have absolutely no sex drive on this medication, I am constantly always dry now, and my emotions are out of control. I never understood girls when they said they got emotional on their periods, except when I was on this birth control pills. It was bad, like very bad. Like severe fighting with my boyfriend because I would get so heavily emotional and explode. I will be switching birth controls yet again very soon”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been taking Azurette for 3 years now and I couldn't of found a better birth control option. It took me maybe a month to get use to but since then I don't ever have any adverse/side effects. The only downside to the pill is on the sugar pill week I tend to be more moody and irritable than normal. However, it has been super effective in preventing pregnant and regulating my normally horrendous periods that I use to have. My periods are much lighter and bearable. I would definitely recommend azurette to someone else.”
		

For Birth Control: “Love it! Been continuously dosing without breaking for menstruation for almost two years due to extremely difficult/painful menstrual cycles, emotional trouble, etc. This pill smoothed all of that out! Spotting for a few months once going on, but rarely have issues now. Cleared up my skin perfectly. Two down sides: total libido killer (I feel like a robot sometimes), and a bit of weight gain. The weight gain actually didn't happen for the first year, so I'm not totally certain that the pill was the cause. Maybe it was the pill mixed with extremely stressful past 6+ months and overeating from stress. I'll gladly take emotional normalcy and no dependence on painkillers in exchange for the downsides!”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on this pill for 4 years. I switched to this one because my previous ones caused me to gain weight. These pills do not cause me to gain weight and keep my skin flawless. However, I think they recently made a more generic version of the pills and switched packaging and everything and for these last three months I've been loosing my temper and really emotional. I have no sex drive also.  I am going to have to switch pills. But for the first few years of my life, they've been good”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on this prescription for 5+ years.  I have never had any issues.  

My pharmacy tried to change to Mylan - Ethinyl Estradiol which made me very moody and anxious.  I tried Teva - Kariva and couldn't sleep.  

I really like Azurette but hear its being discontinued.”
		

For Birth Control: “Kept me from getting pregnant and was easy to remember to take because of packaging, but it made me nauseous in the morning for the first couple of months.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on this pill for almost a year now and I have no complaints! Used to have cramps that were so bad I fainted or threw up and it was miserable. Was on Tri-Previfem before this and it was mild and didn't help with cramps that much. This pill is higher in hormones I believe and I actually lost weight when I switched. My only reason I'm not giving it a 10 is I do break out before my period, a bit more than I used to but it's worth feeling so much better.”
		

For Birth Control: “Do not take this pill.”
		

For Birth Control: “I wish I didn't even have to rate this terrible medication. I asked my doctor to put me on a birth control to help with my periods. This birth control has been the absolute worst. I have had every terrible side effect from stomach cramps, severe depression, insane mood swings, nausea, feeling lethargic, I mean...just the worst I've ever felt. And all because of a medication... Yeah, no thanks.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been taking Azurette 28's since August 7th 2016 and have been experiencing cramps since the 2nd or 3rd day. They go from being mild with little irritation to being severe. I'm having mood swings as well. I've even noticed that I have gained weight. I had a bad migraine headache over the weekend, i felt so terrible I was throwing up and I couldn't lay down because my entire skull felt like it was shattering into a million little pieces. I almost had my husband take me to the emergency room. I was on Lutera a few years ago and I didn't experience any of these symptoms. I'm going to ask my doctor to switch me to that. I would never recommend Azurette to anyone. I only wanted to regain control over my periods otherwise I wouldn't be on bc.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on this pill for about a year, personally, it helped stable my emotions. The pill I was on previously made it so that I was constantly emotional. Sobbing constantly, snappy and always frustrated, plus extremely tired. The only problems I have with Azurette, is that I now have extreme cramps, and I also have issues with my sex drive. My sex drive is super high, but sex is extremely painful if i'm taking my pill.”
		

For Birth Control: “I took Azurette for about 4 years. During the first 3 months I had terrible mood swings and acne. My sex drive also decreased significantly. I didn't experience any weight gain. My periods were light, lasted about 5 days, predictable, and no spotting.”
		

For Birth Control: “Was on this for about a year, completely cleared up my premenstrual acne. Normally I would only get a couple pimples before each period but this medication didn't cause any, great clear skin. Normal periods, light to moderate lasting about 5 days. No out of normal weight gain, no headaches or mood swings. I'm only giving it 9 stars because it really dried me out down there, needed lube sometimes. Other than that, I'd recommend it if you have a tendency to get premenstrual acne.”
		

For Birth Control: “I took this for 6 months.  It does a pretty good job at clearing up my skin but occasionally I get large single zits once in a while.  I did not experience any bad moods, fatigue, or weight gain as with other pills so Azurette is the most tolerable pill by far for me.  But it causes so much hair loss I need to switch to a different pill.”
		

For Birth Control: “Hi! I would like to add my experience with taking Azurette. I have taken it for 4 years and it is honestly a great option. I had normal period flows before getting on birth control (7 days), but severe cramps. Azurette completely relieved me of cramps and my periods were lighter (3-4 days). Here's why I can't give it a 10: I do feel more moody - not bursting into tears every other day, but slightly more snappy/angry/sensitive to things that otherwise wouldn't bother me so much. I've had to learn to control that, but it's annoying. Sex drive over time has decreased - but I'm also a lot more stressed since starting my career (I'm 26). Lastly, I decided that worrying about daily pills is also annoying.”
		
7.0
Birth Control
