Beyaz
Beyaz contains a combination of drospirenone, ethinyl estradiol, and levomefolate. Drospirenone and ethinyl estradiol prevent ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary) and also cause changes in your cervical mucus and uterine lining, making it harder for sperm to reach the uterus and harder for a fertilized egg to attach to the uterus. Levomefolate is a type of B vitamin that helps prevent a rare birth defect that could occur in a baby if pregnancy occurs while taking birth control pills or shortly after stopping them.
Level 1 interactions:
clonazepam
Xanax (alprazolam)
Level 2 interactions:
ibuprofen
levothyroxine
No level 3 interactions

For Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder: “I take the brand name using my insurance and the coupon from the website and pay $0 each month.  I use it for PMDD, PCOS, endometriosis, and adenomyosis.  I was previously on Xulane, which made me have irregular cycles non-stop and I was tired of having my period all the time.  With Beyaz, I go for much longer in between cycles.  I haven't taken it for 6 months yet, so my body is still getting used to it but I think it is much better.  Between the Beyaz and Zoloft, my PMDD is much more controlled.  I also love the extra folate.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was scared to take Beyaz because of some of the reviews I had but I’m so glad I did. I was diagnosed with mild PCOS and was having irregular spotting and pelvic cramps from it, after 2 months of being on it my pelvic cramps and irregular bleeding have gone away. My periods are now lighter and I have less cramping. I did experience a breakout when I first started taking it but it wasn’t too bad and it eventually went away within a couple of weeks. I definitely recommend this birth control and it hasn’t caused me anything bad for me so far!”
		

For Acne: “I am taking the generic version, which even with a goodrx coupon is still 55$ a month. However, I was willing to pay because of how terribly my body reacts to other “low” tier medications. My first two weeks were normal, however mid pack my skin was HORRIBLE. It lasted until about the 2nd pack, when it started to clear up tremendously. I am starting my 4th month and it has done wonders for my skin. It’s not perfect but I have only gotten one breakout since the initial “purge” with other factors playing into it. My weight did not change but I workout &amp; eat well. The only odd effect I had was at about month 3 when I got my period out of nowhere and it lasted for about a full week. It was very light but I was SO bloated. I skip the sugar pills and start a new pack always, so I asked my doctor. This is normal if you’re skipping your period with the pill, so be aware that your body will want to have one anyways. Give this a try if you are on the hunt for a good birth control”
		

For Birth Control: “Throughout the first month, I was on this website all the time looking for hope!!! The first month was awful and I broke out everywhere, but by the end of my sugar pills, my skin was basically clear. Push through the first month!!!!!!!!”
		

For Birth Control: “Beyaz has been my most favorite birth control. I have noticed no side effects and my skin is clear!”
		

For Birth Control: “I started Beyaz my senior year of high school (about 7 and a half years ago) and have been on it ever since! Over the years, I've heard horror stories from girlfriends about having to try multiple different pills before finding one that was right for them, and all the side effects that went along with trying them. I was extremely lucky to have originally been prescribed Beyaz because I feel as though I have barely experienced any negative side effects. I did develop a sensitivity to caffeine that I think may be related to the pill, but it's definitely something that's manageable. My insurance is going to change at the beginning of the year and Beyaz will no longer be covered. I'm going to miss it because it worked so well for me!”
		

For Birth Control: “Beyaz was my first birth control pill. I bled throughout the first month and I got cramps, which really scared me because I usually have short periods and almost never get cramps. After the first month, the bleeding stopped, my face cleared up and my sex drive increased. Sadly, after 6-7 months of being on Beyaz I noticed my vaginal lubrication wasn't the same, even when my sexual drive was high. For me that was a huge upside down and I decided to switch to another pill, but I would definitely recommend it, since that was the only side effect I experienced.”
		

For Birth Control: “I started Beyaz a year ago and wow its been a trip! First 3 months I BLED NON STOP. I started the pill at the beginning of my period so naturally I went the first few days with my period. But after my usually 3-4 day cycle, I wouldn't stop bleeding. It wasn't a period bleeding but there was definitely spotting to the point where I had to wear a liner or pad. For 3 consecutive months I spotted nonstop. When I went back to the doctor for my next packets, she said i just needed to adjust. As soon as I started my 4th month, things were normal. I stopped spotting, I bled only during my period and things were fine. I also broke out only on my chin during the first 2 months. Eventually it cleared up and everything was good. I haven't had a pregnancy scare, my boyfriend and I never use condoms so I think its been really effective.  Only thing I will say is that I used to rarely get cramps before, and now I get some usually on my first day and now my periods are about 4-5 days instead of 3-4”
		

For Birth Control: “This is my first time on BC &amp; after researching many different brands I’m glad I was put on this one. Reading the reviews I was a little hesitant but decided to give it a try &amp; find out how my own experience would go. The first month was rough. Actually the first week I noticed an extreme difference in my irritability/ anxiety. I would get frustrated &amp; annoyed at the drop of a dime. I would cry for absolutely no reason at all. I also experienced nausea &amp; headaches on a daily basis but they eventually went away on their own, my body took some time to adjust but I can say that this form of birth control works well for me. I take it at the same time every day &amp; have had lighter shorter periods with almost no cramping. Prior to BC I had heavier periods &amp; days where I couldn’t even get out of bed due to horrible cramps. My advice, don’t focus too much on the reviews. 9/10 times people will write a NEGATIVE experience as opposed to a positive one.”
		

For Acne: “I went threw 3 horrible months! I started with nausea and vomiting. Then I broke out all over my jaw and chin. I had no sex drive and was extremely fatigued. I was always extremely hot and sweaty and felt short of breath. Not for me.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’m 19 5’7’’ and weigh 135lbs and I’ve been on birth control since I was 16. My periods were so bad ever since they started. I bled so much but it only lasted about 3-4 days. I would get really bad hot flashes and deep aching cramps with my periods (even on birth control). My hormones were all over the place. I’m on my 3rd pack (I skip my periods). I was scared to go back on birth control because of how nauseous and crazy I felt on my other type. I have not had anything negative happen so far with Beyaz. I’m pretty sure I’ve lost a pound or two, haven’t had any period bleeding or symptoms (bye bye hot flashes), my boobs are very tender and have grown like 2 cup sizes, they’ve grown so much that I feel like they’re in the way now lol. Well with bigger boobs brings forth a very excited boyfriend, but now I literally have no sex drive. I feel bad haha. I used to, but now I don’t. Overall I 10/10 recommend. It’s a game changer.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have ben taking Beyaz for like a month now and I wasn’t having any problems until the effects kicked in, within the month. I had a nightmare of an experience. I was feeling depressed, so sad for an action that I did which wasn’t even bad to begin with. I was feeling nauseous, blurred/foggy vision (which was high blood pressure ). I felt trapped. I felt this way for like 3 days straight. It was so scary. However my skin is super clear, which was why I began the pill in the first place . My sex drive has definitely lowered, which I’m the total opposite. I’m a very happy funny person but this made me feel not myself. I was getting panic attack’s and anxiety with sadness . I never read on side effects but this time I did and it was the pill . 
I’m so relieved to find out what  it was.”
		

For Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder: “I was on Jolessa for a year and bled for almost the entire time. Doctor put me on Beyaz at my insistence. Bleeding finally stopped in the 3rd or 4th week. Have not bled since. I have period symptoms, but no bleeding. My PMDD is so much better on Beyaz. On Jolessa, I had hard little bumps on my right cheek. On Beyaz, those don't break  above the skin anymore, so aren't a problem. My only real gripe is the cost ($75 co-pay for the generic 3-pack), and the period symptoms that can last a week or more.”
		

For Birth Control: “So far I have been on Beyaz for 4 months and have not had any issues. Acne-wise: I have minimal acne but I do get have hormonal cystic acne which is painful and bothersome. Since being on Beyaz for the past 4 months, I have not had any huge cystic breakouts before or after my period! So far so good! Weight gain: Within the first month of taking Beyaz I didn't have much of an appetite (no changes in diet) and lost maybe about 5-6 lbs in a month but my body must have gotten use to the pill because I gained that all back within the next month (no changes in diet). Thankful I have not had any of the major side effects such as severe cramping or bloating, swelling of ankles, hair loss (my hair is already thin so I can't really say if that had an effect or not).  So far so good.”
		

For Acne: “I went on Beyaz to clear my acne.. and wow did it work!! My face is almost completely clear. I still get one or two pimples every now and then, but nothing like how my acne was before I went on the pill. I’m now on my 4th pack and very happy with the results. But, I did gain some weight on it. Nothing crazy just around 5 pounds but my body is just getting used to the pill and as of right now I love it.”
		

For Birth Control: “This birth control caused me to have blood clots in both my lungs after taking it for a few years.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on Beyaz for 5 years, since the age of 23.  The 1st few months were rough. I can remember being overly emotional. As an introvert, I could definitely notice the difference but then mellowed out.

I had my period for 2-3 days after the first 6 months. After the 1st year I noticed that my period would occasionally skip a month or 2 or would come out brown for 2-3 days after taking the last pill in the pack. 

My acne was less present, appearing only within the week of my period. 

Rarely if ever do I feel cramps; Nothing like before the pill.

For me, I had initial weight loss but after my body got used to the drug, the weight returned.

My migraines are now once a year instead of monthly.

I've experienced no change in my sexual drive--still high.  In the first year I would always use a condom or Plan B just incase. After STD testing and a monogamous relationship did I stop using extra protection. I can happily say that the birth control has worked thus far.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been using this birth control for 7 years. I love it! At first I definitely saw a change with myself. Positive and negative. My period became shorter and my skin cleared up so quick! I have not had a pimple on my skin since starting this. The only negative I can think of is a little bit of weight gain and an emotional side effect. I definitely felt a little more sensitive and anxious after taking it but nothing crazy enough to go off the pill. Definitely recommend for people who are you struggling with acne or bad breakouts.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been off and on Beyaz for about a year. I was excited to have a regular period and also the birth control factor. I stopped taking it the first time around (after 7 months) because I felt like I was going crazy. I was emotional all the time, and it affected my relationships and my eating habits. I restarted it a couple months ago, and I have to stop taking it again. I get really bad headaches, I have brain fog, and I feel like I’m pregnant because I crave different foods all the time. I don’t want to work out, I don’t have any energy, and my emotions are all over the place - terrible anxiety. I’m not going to say “don’t take this” because every woman is different, and some won’t experience any of these symptoms. But if you are experiencing these symptoms, I suggest talking to your doctor or simply acknowledging how you feel on it. I’m stopping today, and I’ll never go back.”
		

For Acne: “I was on Beyaz for about 3 years and decided to switch to lo loestrogen fe because it has the lowest hormone dosage out of all birth controls. Biggest mistake of my life! My skin was clear before LLF but 3 months into taking it, I broke out along my jawline, neck and back! To make things worse, I had the worst mood swings and felt like a crazy person 24/7. I thought these were just the side effects from switching pills and it would get better past the 3 month mark but it didn’t. I’m back on beyaz and although it’s only been 2 weeks my skin is getting better and I am back to my normal self - no more crazies! My gyno told me that beyaz is already an extremely low hormone dose BC so it really didn’t make a difference switching to something lower. Ladies- do not switch to anything else, beyaz is the best!”
		

For Birth Control: “Here to give an update! Last time I posted here was the beginning of November so it's been just about 3 months. Please if you're thinking about trying it go for it. Safe to say I absolutely love beyaz, the spotting problem I had went away after the first pack and is normal. I originally went on beyaz for acne and bad periods. My acne has never been better than it is right now. The first month was hard but by the end of the second pack, I started to see serious changes. I'm now onto my fourth pack and I still get a few breakouts (small, maybe 2-3) when I'm on the sugar pills but I'm hoping even those go away soon. I used to bleed through a tampon and onto my clothes within 2 hours and now my period lasts 3-4 days, no cramps. No noticeable side effects, weight gain, headaches, or mood changes. This pill is truly the best thing that has happened to me! I feel confident in myself again. Thank you, beyaz!”
		

For Birth Control: “I was put on this pill for two months. In the first 3 days I already knew I needed something else. I am normally quite laid back and cheery but have had small issues with anxiety. On Beyaz, My anxiety was constant and I would get into periods of complete emotional detachment or where anything someone said would hurt me. I would have anxiety attacks so bad that I would scratch at my skin and my boyfriend would have to hold me down. Not to mention my sex drive was pretty much gone and when I would have sex there would be intense pain or pressure on my lower abdomen. If you already struggle with anxiety or depression, I recommend staying away from this pill.”
		

For Birth Control: “I started this birth control when I was 18.  It was then called yaz and changed to beyaz. I love it, it shortens my periods to 2 to 3 days and that was back then. I have had 2 kids and after nursing and using a different pill during that time I got back on beyaz... Now it has actually stopped my periods after a couple months of use. I highly recommend trying this pill I have had zero issues with it all positive from this gal! ( I am now 28) so I've used this for a looong time”
		

For Birth Control: “This drug can create absolutely horrible stomach problems. I went from having no stomach issues to horrible IBS, all due to Beyaz.

My sister was on the same birth control while I was on this drug and was also experiencing the same symptoms. I got an IUD and went off Beyaz and my stomach started feeling better. However, it took almost 9 months for my body to fully recover. Horrible side effects for a birth control, would not recommend it to anyone.”
		

For Birth Control: “If you're browsing this wondering whether or not to try it, just give it a chance for 2 months. Everyone is so different, you'll never guess your own reaction browsing others experiences. But if you're curious- here's mine. It was recommended to me for a hormonal imbalance/acne when I was 18. I'm 25 now and still taking it. First month was awful but I'm glad I stuck it out. Now my periods are lighter, cramps are milder, migraines are gone, and I did not experience any major side effects (no weight gain or moodiness!). However my sex drive isn't as high. Not nonexistent just taken down a notch. I still think the benefits have outweighed the cons for me. Also - was switched to Rajani and then back to Beyaz. Didn't notice any difference”
		
8.0
7.5
6.9
Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder
Acne
Birth Control
Summary of Beyaz reviews
7.1
