Caziant
Caziant is a combination birth control pill containing female hormones that prevent ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary).  Caziant also causes changes in your cervical mucus and uterine lining, making it harder for sperm to reach the uterus and harder for a fertilized egg to attach to the uterus.
Level 1 interactions:
clonazepam
Vitamin C (ascorbic acid)
Level 2 interactions:
levothyroxine
prednisone
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “I grew up with PCOS, endo, dysmenorrhea. I started taking BC around 12, I've tried at least 9 BCPs.  I'm about to start month 3 of Caziant, and my experience is: 1st month had some moodiness, boobs were kinda sore, cramps minimal, and bleeding was VERY light, but had breakthrough for 5 days before my period, then a light 3-4 day period.
Month 2 is great, a few days of grouch and anxiety (normally BAD), sleep &amp; workouts are great (avid lifter 15-20 hrs a week). My boobs look fantastic, and while my libido is down a bit, I'm having no issues getting stuff done. I'm tired, and my weight is up 5lbs , but no size gain, so no worries. I am about to start my inactive pills in  4 days, I am PMSing. Starving, slight cramps, and night sweats. Normally it's much worse.
So far I'm happy with Caziant. I have not become anemic, depressed, or had panic attacks.  I get mine from Costco, they have a discount card-3 months for about $75”
		

For Birth Control: “Let me preface this by saying I have taken many different kinds of birth control pills throughout my teen and adult years. This is by far the BEST bcp for my cystic, hormonal acne. I've also taken Cyclessa which is in the same family (desogestrel &amp; triphasic) with the same results. Any time I went off of Caziant to "switch it up" was when I started breaking out horribly in cystic bumps. If you suffer from hormonal acne, definitely give Caziant a try. Other benefits are light &amp; short periods, very mild mood swings, normal sex drive, no weight gain.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on Caziant for 9 months now and the only adverse side effect I've had is weigh gain, other than that it's worked great! I've gained about 15 pounds since starting the meds and have been exercising a ton and eating very healthy the entire time, so I'm fairly certain it has to do with the medication. I haven't had mood swings, my periods have been incredibly regular with no spotting in between, no headaches or nausea so all-in-all I would say this is a good birth control!”
		
8.3
Birth Control
