Gianvi
Gianvi is a combination birth control pill containing female hormones that prevent ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary).  Gianvi also causes changes in your cervical mucus and uterine lining, making it harder for sperm to reach the uterus and harder for a fertilized egg to attach to the uterus.
Level 1 interactions:
alprazolam
clonazepam
Klonopin (clonazepam)
melatonin
Level 2 interactions:
metformin
spironolactone
No level 3 interactions

For Acne: “I was on Gianvi for 8 years (from 18 years to 26 years) and it did WONDERS for my acne on my face and my back. I was prescribed it from my dermatologist. I had a regular period every month once my body adapted to the new hormone changes.

When I turned 26 I had to switch to my own insurance and Gianvi was no longer free on my new plan, so I switched to Junel Fe for all of 2020 - biggest mistake of my life. My periods were irregular / I would go months without even getting one, my mood swings were horrible, and my skin started to break out on my back and my face.

Last month I went back on my insurance to see how much Gianvi would be because I couldn't be on Junel Fe anymore, and Gianvi was free again! So I immediately switched back and my skin is already starting to improve. Gianvi is one of three qualified combination pills for acne purposes, so I highly recommend this if you are having acne problems.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on this birth control for about 4 years. I was prescribed Gianvi for acne. I noticed that for 3 years my acne improved greatly. However, throughout the last year on it I noticed my acne was suddenly going back to how it was prior to taking birth control. I am considering switching to a new birth control because of this or just stopping birth control all together. I personally did not experience any side effects other than my period changing. I get my period about every 6 months now instead of every month and it’s very light. I asked my doctor about this and she said this was normal. This was nice plus as my period was rather heavy. Overall, I had a very positive experience on this birth control, however it’s no longer helping with my acne so I might have to switch.”
		

For Birth Control: “I started Gianvi after 3 months of using Yaz. I’m not happy at all. I’m due to start my 2nd pack today but I think that I’m just going to discontinue using it. Yesterday, I experienced serious mood swings and today isn’t any better. I’ve been an emotional wreck and I don’t like the way that it makes me feel.”
		

For Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder: “The first couple weeks I started noticing my acne actually getting worse on this particular birth control Gianvi. I blamed it on outside stressors and the fact that maybe it was a flair up from starting a different birth control. Fast forward to months later and my acne hadn't really gotten any better and I noticed EXTREME mood swings (increased depression, suicidal thoughts, even what felt like mania at times) around the time of my period and it seemed like it got worse every period. Disclaimer: I do have a history of depression and take medication (fluoxotine) for that so it may have been drug interaction.”
		

For Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder: “I have been on Gianvi around 7 months now for PMDD. Prior to Gianvi I had the copper IUD which I didn't like. Every month would get suicidal depression before my period. I did the research found out about PMDD. I started taking Gianvi and my 1st month on it was happiest I'd been in awhile. I felt a lot more balanced and less stressed. Maybe it was placebo affect bc the following months weren't necessarily as great but my PMDD was still WAY better. Last month switched me to loryna which was making me feel so depressed and crazy I stopped taking it after 2 weeks. After a lot of desperate searching I found another pharmacy that carries Gianvi &amp; am back on it. It has only been a few days &amp; I feel back to normal. I haven't had any negative effects, no weight gain &amp; if anything my skin has improved. I know birth control isn't necessarily the most natural or healthy thing but it is better than feeling suicidal every month. I have tried lots of different birth controls &amp; this is the only one I have liked.”
		

For Birth Control: “Does anyone experience stomach pain and discomfort from their birth control? I keep having to switch generic versions because after a few months by stomach will just generally ache all the time. Nikki seems to be bad as well as Loryna. I’m back to Giavani which was fine for the longest amount of time.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was really worried about starting on Gianvi after reading all of these negative reviews. It started out fine with no major mood shifts. But then I started on my second pack and was in the depths of despair. I have a history of depression and anxiety, so I was not sure whether it was the birth control, but it got to the point where I was  in such a dark place. I decided to stop Gianvi and instantly felt better. It was like a cloud lifted off my head. People react differently to this, so I’m not dissuading someone from trying it. But just be vigilant for the side effects.”
		

For Birth Control: “I had stomach pains for a whole year to the point of almost pooping my pants at work with anything I ate. I eventually went to the doctor and she chalked it up as IBS which I feel like is an excuse when there aren’t any other answers. My mom realized that this was a generic brand of YAZ and remembered that she was sick for 9 months on that with the same issues. At this point I was willing to try anything to not have stomach issues so I came off of it and haven’t had any stomach issues since!! I also realized it decreased my sex drive, made me dry, and the white part of my eyes are yellow because of it. Highly recommend a different BC or none at all!!”
		

For Acne: “I was put on this for my acne after having acne for 10+ years and was on Nikki/ Gianvi a little over TWO YEARS. After a year, I started to feel very sick as if my immune system was attacking itself every single day. I would wake up with a sore throat, was getting sick all the time for long period of time, and just felt overall so tired and not like a healthy 22 year old. After spending close to a year seeing doctor after doctor, various blood tests/ procedures, the doctors could not find anything. I was convinced I suddenly had an autoimmune diseases. After doing immense research on birth control, I discovered it can cause an increased risk of autoimmune diseases, cause NUTRIENT DEFICIENCIES, ETC. After stopping birth control, I cannot even begin to tell you what a change I have seen. I no longer feel sick on a daily basis which is insane and I also have so much energy!! This birth control MADE MY ACNE WORSE, and CAUSED MUCH ANXIETY.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on Nikki birth control pill for 8 months and then I got switched to Gianvi, now have been on Gianvi for 4 months. I honestly like it, when I was on Nikki I got really bad acne and since I've been on Gianvi I only get a few pimples once a month. I got my period with Nikki even if I didn't take the white pills but with Gianvi I haven't got mine in 3 months IDK if its because I've been on the pill for a year or this one just effects it more but I am liking it. I was on the implant for 8 months before Nikki and I got such bad side effects from it, I've never had acne before except maybe 1 pimple during that time of the month and I had it so bad all over my face. I bleed pretty much the whole time out of the 8 months on the implant, it would stop then start right back up again the next 2  days. I am loving Gianvi except I get really nauseous at times, but compared to the implant and Nikki it is great”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on Gianvi for about 3 months now and honestly at first I was very worried about side effects and very nervous as to what would happen to my body but it’s the best decision I ever made! Within the first week of starting the pill I was nauseous almost everyday (I take my pill at 9:00 pm), every now and then I’ll get a bit nauseous but it is tolerable. I did not gain/lose any weight, and do not bleed (nor haven’t bled) any other time than when I menstruate within the first three days of starting the placebo pills. The only significant complaint I have is frequent headaches. I have a headache at some point throughout the day almost every day, some last hours and others, minutes. Again, they are uncomfortable but tolerable and if they are very bad, I’ll take some OTC pain relief drugs. I am happy having peace of mind and no more pregnancy scares! Also, my periods have shortened, lightened, and are much less painful ever since I started taking Gianvi, which is great.”
		

For Birth Control: “This is the worst birth control choice ever! I was originally on a generic form of Yazmin and decided to try a lighter dose because of weight gain/decreased sex drive. I also started to break out around my period and knew this was supposed to help with acne. Well it didn’t, my forehead now has little bumps under the skin that go away and come back in a week! I’ve been super emotional and I cry almost every day since starting my second pack, and my migraines are so much worse! I don’t have a history of depression. It takes a lot for me to cry! Now I can’t control it! And to top it all off, I’ve been spotting for a week and a half. I’m done with this pill, and not taking the last 2 of my 2nd pack.”
		

For Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder: “This pill was great for the first couple months. My acne cleared, which was a problem due to my PCOS, and my periods were finally regular. I could feel these mood swings coming on, but I felt like a demon. This all hit me full force after I passed the third month. I was irritated at the smallest things, zero libido, it was an out of body experience. My self esteem plummeted to where I never wanted to even look at myself, severely depressed and anxiety which I have not struggled with in the past and gained 15 pounds out of nowhere. I couldn’t go an hour without crying. One day and almost had to pull over while driving because I couldn’t  breathe. The way these hormones hit me was a nightmare, I am never ever going back to the pill. I’ve done too much trial and error for this, it’s not worth my mental health/state of mind. One week off of it and I feel like myself again, thank goodness. Avoid Gianvi if you want to keep your brain the same!!!!”
		

For Birth Control: “I started taking Gianvi after the pharmacy said Vestura, another generic of Yaz was discontinued. I noticed that after a month of taking it, I did not get my period. I asked my OBGYN and she said it was normal. After continual use, I actually lost my period for a whole year while I was on it and didn’t think anything of it because I thought it was normal until I went back to my OBGYN. Also, a month ago, I stopped talking Gianvi after my new insurance only does 90 days supply with online mail order. So now after taking another generic, drospirenone and Ethinyl Estradiol from Glenmark pharma, my period has returned after 30 days on it. So don’t believe what pharmacist say it’s the same when changing to another generic brand. I also experience lost of sex drive and dryness on Gianvi. I wish I would have realized sooner what it did to my body. Other than that, it did protect me from pregnancies.”
		

For Birth Control: “I took this birth control for about 4 months at first. I have a history of anxiety and depression and I don’t remember having it be exacerbated when I first started, but after a couple of months on this pill, I started having extreme mood swings, irritability, crying spells, and a lower libido. I went off of it for almost 2 months and felt stable and not depressed. I recently tried to go on it again because I totally had amnesia about how horrible I felt on it towards the end, but I have felt horrible irritable, anxious, and depressed since I started 3 weeks ago. I stopped taking it a week ago and I feel like my body and hormones are going haywire so I am hoping that I feel better soon. I have tried multiple oral contraception pills and I will probably not be trying another one.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on three different birth controls, my first one was amazing but they discontinued it! So I am now on Gianvi, it has been almost 5 months I have not stopped spotting for almost two months. It has put a huge damper on my sex life with my boyfriend. I also have noticed I am very dry, which was never an issue before this pill. I have much high anxiety and really bad cravings as well. After reading all the reviews I will be stopping this pill tomorrow!”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been taking Gianvi for almost two months. I've had spotting for weeks on end, sometimes an odd pain in my chest, frequent headaches and nausea, vision changes in my right eye and my mood is often really low. I already have anxiety issues and this has magnified them too. I found it helpful to read that others have had some of these odd symptoms, too.”
		

For Birth Control: “Been on this pill Gianvi for almost 10 years.  I was on it from about 18-24. Stopped it to start our family. I got back on it when I was 26. Before my son it worked good. Towards the end my periods did start to go back to 6 days though. Went back on it after having my son and it has been horrible. I am so much more irritable and moody EVERYDAY. I take it like I should and I still have spotting most months. I am constantly exhausted and switching pills next month. The only plus was I was able to get pregnant within a month of quitting the pill...I will never go back to this”
		

For Acne: “Prior to Gianvi birth control pill, I was taking Zarah and it was a godsend. No issues at all with Zarah birth control until Walgreens pharmacy stopped carrying it. I've tried a bunch of other generics but feel like Gianvi is my best bet. I don't get headaches or extremely dry during intimacy. 

My skin is pretty flawless except for these tiny bumps on my chin- a lot of them too. I never had this issue before, and they're not closed comedones or cysts. If I try to pop them, they come out like hard seeds. Even with a chemical exfoliant like BHA, it's hard for these to leave my chin.”
		

For Birth Control: “Have been taking this a full month now. I started because I developed hormonal acne during my period but now I’m actually regretting starting the Gianvi!!! My skin is soooo BAD. Actually terrible. Little tiny bumps all over my face and pus filled pimples, cysts. You name it. Eating away at my face. It’s only been a month, so I’ll wait 2 more because I heard that can happen. If no changes I’m off this ASAP. Otherwise I haven’t experienced any of the mentally altering side effects, my mood is the same. No depression or panic attacks. Oh, also unsure if I’m spotting? Or if I got my period and it’s very light?”
		

For Birth Control: “My mental health got so bad on this drug that I wasn't even able to complete one cycle of pills. Since I started the pack, I'd been horribly depressed. I was crying every day and every night, with major lethargy and other bad effects. I was originally prescribed this medication to deal with period cramps and help me with bad PMS symptoms, but ironically I experienced pains at weird parts of my cycle where I'd never gotten them and, like I mentioned, my mental health worsened significantly. I also broke out heavily all over my chin. It would have been nice if this had worked out, but it led to a really bad experience for me.”
		

For Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder: “After trying an IUD and two other pills, I was turned off by the idea of birth control because of how horribly depressed and moody the others made me feel. Gianvi has been totally different. I suffer from anxiety, acne, and PMDD. I have been taking Gianvi for about 4 months now. Emotionally, I feel the same as I did before, except my PMDD has improved drastically. It is not completely gone, but instead of feeling suicidally depressed for two weeks before my period, I just get a little down for only a few days which is huge for me. I have always struggled with acne and my skin has cleared up significantly since being on this pill. I still get pimples here and there, but nothing like before. Weight gain was a big concern of mine, but I am happy to report that I have not gained weight from this pill. And a bonus is that my boobs have gotten a bit bigger too! While Gianvi has not completely eradicated my acne or PMDD, I am so happy to have found a birth control pill that works well for me.”
		

For Birth Control: “Started taking this birth control the second week in August. After a week on the pill I suffered an intense panic attack. Something that I had never experienced before especially since nothing in my life had changed besides the birth control. Since then symptoms of anxiety, crying, and depression has been on and off. My period still isn’t regular. After almost two months off this medication I am just now feeling like myself again. Everyone is different and responds to medication differently. However I would just be aware of these symptoms just in case.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been taking Gianvi brith control pill for the past 3-4 months and have experienced more good than bad. The first couple things I've noticed that's different is my skin and period cycle. For one thing it did what it was supposed to do and regulated my period. I used to get my period every other month during random days. It was  irritating because I never knew when it would come. For my skin, it's improved it a good amount but I'm not someone who had bad skin to begin with. I noticed I stopped getting pimples altogether and when I do it's rare (I promise I have a bad skin routine too so I was surprised.)I haven't gained weight and I didn't experience any decline in my mental health. The only thing that it didn't help with was my period cramps. My OBGYN told me this was supposed to help but my cramps are just as sore. I also noticed that my periods are longer than when I wasn't on birth control. I used to only have my period for 5 days but now it's the full 7 days.”
		

For Birth Control: “Decided to give this birth control a try after my previous bc was discontinued. After 3 weeks on Gianvi birth control pill I started to suffer from intense panic attacks like I’ve never had before which led me to become depressed. I chose it because I get cystic acne close to my period and it honestly hasn’t helped with that issue. I started to spot close to my period and my anxiety attacks became more apparent and I would cry and get very upset over everything. This is not the birth control for me.”
		
7.4
6.8
5.3
Acne
Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder
Birth Control
Summary of Gianvi reviews
5.9
