Kariva
Kariva is a combination birth control pill containing female hormones that prevent ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary).  Kariva also causes changes in your cervical mucus and uterine lining, making it harder for sperm to reach the uterus and harder for a fertilized egg to attach to the uterus.
Level 1 interactions:
clonazepam
Xanax (alprazolam)
Level 2 interactions:
prednisone
Synthroid (levothyroxine)
Topamax (topiramate)
No level 3 interactions

  “I went on the pill for my skin 5 years ago. I struggled with very dry skin &amp; acne.I never noticed change in my behavior, I do get a little moody during my period but I feel like that’s normal. Before going on Kariva my periods were long, painful and heavy. I noticed once I went on the pill I had short, light and manageable periods. I could always expect what week/day I’d be getting my period. I’m not sure if I gained weight because I was only 14 when I started. I do always wonder if I got off Kariva if I would lose weight (Although I’m already slim).I wouldn’t say this pill affects my sex drive, but again I was on the pill before I was sexual active so I’m not sure.Overall, I would recommend this birth control for people who have dry, flaky skin.Everyone’s body acts differently, but this pill has never made me anxious and/or depressed.I would definitely recommend this to people who are starting out or people who have preexisting problems with their skin.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on many types of birth control before and I have never left a review no matter how good or bad, but this pill literally was destroying me mentally. I was on this pill Kariva a little less than 2 months and had to stop mid month because I could not handle the anxiety and depression anymore. I'm a sensitive person but wow this pill made my not able to function. I cried ALL the time. I didn't want to go anywhere. My anxiety was a level I never experienced before. At first I was like cool this pill doesn't make me hungry....later I realized yeah I'm not hungry because I'm so anxious all the time I couldn't focus on eating if I tried. It did it's job at preventing pregnancy but the emotional state it put me in was so not worth it!!!! Please be careful taking this pill. I know it effects everyone differently.”
		

For Birth Control: “helped my skin! haven't noticed any negative side effects, so far very happy”
		

For Birth Control: “Kariva did improve my acne but as far as anything else I wouldn’t really recommend. Really put a toll on my emotions and made me have either bad bursts of crying randomly or just being angry for no reason. Didn’t really mess with my weight though, but did lose all sex drive completely which was awful as well.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on Kariva for almost 3 months and I really like it. I  spent a lot of time researching BC pills and with this I haven’t  experienced any negative side effects, other than the bloating right before my period, which is too be expected. Before birth control, my periods were beginning to become irregular and Kariva has kept it on track. Although the first week of starting Kariva...I became nauseated, had a slight headache, and even threw up. I called my gynecologist and was told it would ease off. It did just that! I feel good and I’m happy with it!”
		

For Birth Control: “Do Not Recommend... Kariva made my face breakout bad &amp; I never previously had problems with acne. It also made me feel like The Incredible Hulk (imagine severe PMS that lasts all month long). I had to stop taking it. My moods were so severe that I wasn’t even able to finish 1 month on it.”
		

For Birth Control: “Horrible would not recommend”
		

For Birth Control: “This pill gave me depression and I gained weight. I went on it to regulate my periods and even though I finally got it when I was supposed to, it was extremely heavy and painful.”
		

For Birth Control: “I took Kariva for about 9 months. The positives include that my period was extremely predictable &amp; it didn't last too long. It didn't affect my weight &amp; my acne cleared up. But, the negatives outweighed the positives by far. I had experienced the worst mood swings I've ever had,I became anxious &amp; cried multiple times a week (yet before Kariva, I was not an avid crier &amp; was able to keep my emotions in check). I was more sad and emotionally unstable than I had ever been, and I had absolutely no motivation to work or to push myself to be happy. I noticed a small change in my mental state with the first 2 months of taking it, but thought it would level out. I kept taking it because it kept my period more regular than other pills. I switched birth controls 2 weeks ago &amp; since I've stopped taking Kariva, even after 2 weeks, I have been the happiest &amp; calmest I have been in months &amp; am only realizing now just how emotionally &amp; mentally unwell I was.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on this birth control for about 2 or 3 months now and it is honestly the worst birth control I’ve ever taken! I had to switch to it because my period became irregular on my other one and with Kariva I’ve been having serious mood swings and been more emotional than normal before and during my period week. Not to mention the fact that I have been retaining water weight and have definitely had a weight gain which was never a problem on my other BCP. Overall I do NOT recommend taking it”
		

For Birth Control: “I was switched to this from Azurette by CVS without any options, as they are suppose to be generics of each other. I gave it a shot and first 3 months seemed ok but then on month 4 I got massive migraines. On month 5 I got about 20 cysts in my breasts and had one so huge that on month 6 I had to get 3 of them drained for the first time in my 35 years on this planet. That was the last straw so  I completely stopped taking it and threw away all my future dosages. After being off it for almost a week, I feel like I get better sleep, and my breast pain has gotten better - though still not 100%. Don't even get me started about sex drive, I forgot what that even feels like anymore.”
		

For Birth Control: “I started taking Kariva for irregular periods after being on another pill. At first, it was fine because my periods were lighter but after a few weeks I started getting terrible cramps, bloating and my acne got awful. It also completely changed my mood and my sex drive is absolutely non-existent. Will definitely be switching.”
		

For Birth Control: “I just started my third month of Kariva. I switched from Junel Fe 1/20. Before, I would get insane mood swings and depression. On Kariva, my mood is balanced as long as I take it at exactly the same time every day. I haven’t noticed any weight gain or change in my sex drive. I had a horrible migraine the first day I took it; after that it’s only happened one other time. My periods last 3-4 days and are light. The only side effect I can’t stand is that I can’t sleep. I have trouble falling asleep and, once I do, I wake up throughout the night. I’ve been dealing with that for two months and I’m trying to hold out and see if it gets better because it is a great pill otherwise.”
		

For Birth Control: “AVOID AT ALL COSTS. I had constant vomiting, loss of appetite, hot to cold flashes, shaking, dizziness to name a few. I wouldn’t give this to my worst enemy. A true nightmare.”
		

For Birth Control: “I switched to Kariva for about 1.5 years ago to help with breakthrough bleeding that I was experiencing with the prior birth control. The few months, my period was light and only 3 days long and was expected during the inactive week. I would say I did notice that this medication made me more depressed before my period was coming and I did gain around 8 lbs. After taking this medication for a longer time, I experienced breakthrough bleeding earlier and earlier to the point where I ended up having a heavy two week period as well as longer bouts of moodiness and cramping. I do experience a lot of bloating and gassiness. I have decided that I need to try another type of medication. This was a great for the months that it worked properly for getting my period on time but I could not imagine continuing this.”
		

For Birth Control: “This Kariva birth control has completely ruined my mental state! I have not gotten pregnant or had any scares but that is not worth what it has done to me emotionally. I am always on the verge of crying, I wake up mornings feeling depressed, and I have even developed anxiety and have anxiety attacks once a month when I have NEVER had anxiety in the past. It has put a strain on my relationship with my boyfriend because he is constantly having to tend to me emotionally as I am always susceptible to mood swings and upset. My period has not even improved other than the fact it is consistent, it is still five days and not even much lighter. Also, my cramps have not improved at all they may have even gotten worse.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been taking Kariva for 6 years now for painful periods. I only take ibuprofen for 1-2 days now during my period as opposed to 5. My bleeding went from heavy to moderate and period went from 8 days to 4-5, but that’s about the only benefits. Over time my side effects have gotten much worse to the point I’m considering stopping usage. My sex drive is non existent and sex has become very painful over the years due to dryness.  I keep up with my annual gyno exams and we’ve concluded that the pill is to blame. I never had a single yeast or BV in my life until taking this medication, and now they’re a yearly occurrence. I also have noticed more mood swings and I’m much more emotional than I used to be. At this point Kariva is very negatively affecting my relationship and I wish I would’ve tried other alternatives to fix my painful periods before jumping on birth control. There’s an underlying reason behind painful periods and taking birth control is just masking the problem.”
		

For Birth Control: “I think it is important to note that birth control is different for everyone, but I was on Kariva for 5 days and it was awful! I would wake up between 3-4 times in a night, have night sweats (which is not normal for me), my breasts were SO tender, I was insanely bloated and THE WORST PART... I think a blood clot was forming in my calf. I did not think this was possible since I was only on it a few days, but then I read that clots normally form when first starting birth control. 
I was also very emotional/anxious/ depressed. I will be switching birth controls.”
		

For Birth Control: “DO NOT TAKE.

The hormonal rage, hot flashes, weight gain, mood swings, night sweats, insomnia, THAT'S JUST TO NAME A FEW side effects.  We won’t even address the hemorrhoids, breast pain, vision problems.

I’d rather be pregnant.”
		

For Birth Control: “When I first took the pill I lost 10-15 pounds which was great. It made me extremely nauseous the first week to the point where I didn’t want to even eat. The nausea went away and I was eating again but feeling more full so I wasn’t eating as much. My acne got a little better but since I suffer for PCOS  I still get acne so it didn’t totally help in that department. Period cramps are a little better. BUT I NOTICED  over the past couple months I received bad head aches and really tired and craving sweets like crazy. Would I recommend it in the beginning ? Yes would I recommend it now ? No. My OBGYN switched me to Yaz so we will see where that takes me.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on Kariva for a year now. I have a heart arrythmia that is aggravated my fluctuating hormones. It has always been more of an issue right before my period due to hormone changes, and is a PMS symptom for me. I see a cardiologist that has me on medication to control my arrhythmia on a daily basis. If my hormones are out of wack, my heart medicine can’t completely control the heart palpitations. I was having hormone related issues so my gyno put me on Kariva to help with everything. However throughout the month, I have breakthrough bleeding, bloating, mild cramps...right before this my heart arrhythmia goes crazy. I don’t feel like the Kariva is regulating my hormones properly. I do take the Kariva at the same time every day and never miss a dose. I have also developed extreme anxiety which only started after taking this BC. It also kills your sex drive. I will be asking for an alternative when I see my doctor next month. I have taken other BCs in the past with no issues.”
		

For Birth Control: “Started on the Depo Shot when I was 14. Although not having periods were nice, I still had every symptom of periods but without bleeding (headaches, cramping, mood swings, increased appetite, etc.). So 6 months later I got switched to Kariva, costing me approximately $50 a month, w/o insurance. I can’t say I’ve had any “major experiences” with Kariva. I started birth control with the intention of lighter periods which have gone from heavier 2 week long periods to a medium flow 3-4 days. I still have a few symptoms but I can’t 100% say it’s due to Kariva since I’ve been on it so long, such as moderate cramping, weight gain (due to large appetite) and occasional moodiness, but definitely nothing that I would say is ‘out of the ordinary’. As of the pregnancy preventative aspect, I’ve had sex occasionally throughout my time on Kariva but haven’t gotten pregnant even due to occasionally forgetting 2-3 pills a month. Overall, I would recommend Kariva.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on Kimidess for 2 years and it was great. When I moved and got new insurance, for whatever reason I kept getting Kariva and not Kimidess from my pharmacy. It has been awful for me. After little to no sex drive, hormonal acne and Perioral dermatitis appearing, I stopped taking the pill and am now hoping to go back to Kimidess. While all BCP work differently for different bodies, this one certainly did not work for me. Super disappointed I was even given this when my doctor never prescribed it! Ladies, be careful about generic BCPs. I personally do NOT trust them now.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’m 23 years old. I’ve switched from Viorele to Kariva because my pharmacy decided to switch it and I just ended up taking it. I definitely do feel a bit more emotional than usual, but I don’t know if it’s casually linked to the Kariva. I realized a small rash of white pimples next to my mouth - which I’m hoping  is not a side effect and is nothing serious. I’ve only been on this new pack for a week now, but I don’t really have any complaints. I liked my previous bc Viorele, and they have the same exact active ingredients... so far I’m ok with the switch.”
		

  “This birth control is awful!  I am a 43 year old and was having irregular periods.  My obgyn prescribed this for me.  It did help
my irregularity - but at a price to me.  I developed Perioral dermatitis.  This is rash type acne around the mouth.  I had never had this issue before.  This is a side effect of the drug, which I found after doing some research.  This is a very stubborn rash to treat.  I am hopeful I got it soon enough it will not be a long term issue for me.  I stopped the pill immediately once I figured out what was going on and did see some relief on my face.  I am also treating it w cream and an oral antibiotic.  I DO NOT recommend this product to anyone!”
		
5.4
Birth Control
