Loestrin
Loestrin 24 Fe (ethinyl estradiol, norethindrone and ferrous fumarate) is a combination medicine that contains female hormones that prevent ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary). This medication also causes changes in your cervical mucus and uterine lining, making it harder for sperm to reach the uterus and harder for a fertilized egg to attach to the uterus.
Level 1 interactions:
clonazepam
Klonopin (clonazepam)
melatonin
Xanax (alprazolam)
Level 2 interactions:
Lamictal (lamotrigine)
levothyroxine
prednisone
Synthroid (levothyroxine)
Topamax (topiramate)
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “What people are saying about this medication is true. I am only 2 weeks in on Loestrin 24 Fe and my face and body is noticeably different. I'm heavier and I also have acne on my forehead. I'm bleeding still and I'm also still in pain. I am discounting and addressing my issues through diet and exercise.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on lolo for a year now and I totally love it. I’ve never experienced any side effects besides weight gain, which is pretty common when taking birth control and I’ve also been home from school all summer. I have the lightest and shortest periods now, sometimes I don’t even have one. I love having no periods especially since I used to have terrible cramps and heavy bleeding, although it is bad for pregnancy scares. I was on tri-previfem before lolo and I absolutely  ire3ally don't! I had the worst side affects especially with the yeast infections that would never go away. Lolo was the only pill that worked for me and it is amazing!”
		

For Birth Control: “I can’t even begin to understand how this Loestrin 24 Fe is even consider Medicine. First, previously my mental health was in great place. With-in two months of being on this pill I battle with depression and suicide. Second, I gained weight and didn’t even get my period on my off week.  I hate this pill with passion. I believe it should be banned. I believe there need to be more research done in the connection of birth control pills and depression. The pills has torn me apart and now I working to put myself back together. But I know I am not the only one who has had these side effects. Now I am seeing the reviews. It infuriates me that there is not more research done between the psychological effects of Birth control in women. I am angry. I am upset. Please don’t take these pills.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been using Lo Loestrin Fe for about 3 years now. I'm 18 now and started it when I was 15. For the most part my skin was pretty clear. Up until senior year of HS my skin got crazy. Pimples popping up everyday and leaving awful red scars. (My obgyn is putting me on yaz soon) Not excited about that either birth co of all the horrible reviews Ive read. I also have no had a period since starting the pill which Ive really enjoyed. I rate this a 5 because my doctor thinks that the Lo Loestrin is whats causing my acne. But I'm not too convinced.”
		

For Birth Control: “I recently started taking this birth control and 2 weeks on it my chin blew up with acne. I didn’t have acne until I started birth control last year.  My depression is so much worse and it’s rare to have a good day. My doctor is having me stay on it for 3 months to see if it levels out. Hoping for the best”
		

For Birth Control: “This pill worked well for me. I was first put on the pill to help heavy periods and for contraception. I’ve tried various brands with bad side effects until this one that I was on for 2 years.
Loestrin really agreed with me! I didn’t get any spotting, no skin problems and I found it easier to lose weight with a small amount of effort. It didn’t help much with my heavy periods but no pill has. It was good being able to control when my period came. You have to be quite accurate with when you take it everyday though. You also have to give it about 4 months to settle. 
The mini pill before this which was horrific. The mini pill gave me oily skin, acne and greasy hair within hours of washing. Loestrin was a relief and stopped all those symptoms.  
I’ve now been off the pill for a year as I wasn’t having sex that much and wanted to see what I’m like natural after 10 years of various pill taking. It’s made me realise how much Loestrin helped with my skin and weight!”
		

For Birth Control: “I  hated being on this birth control. I switch from the patch that was throwing my liver out of control. My doctor suggested this low dose birth control. I thought this will be awesome. I was horribly wrong. I went from having a period once a month to bleeding heavily every 2 weeks. After about a month I started losing a lot of hair, I called my doctor he said it could take a few months to normalize. Finally started having a period once a month but I would start when I still had 8 days of active pills left. Then it went to nothing for 3 months, great right? Then bam 2 week heavy period, cramps for days. I noticed my skin was having more breakouts that wouldn't go away. My under control depression went crazy. Biggest mood swings one minute I'm happy go lucky the next I'm a rage case the next moment I'm uncontrollably sad. I finally couldn't handle it and got put on a different birth control. I know every women is different. But this one def. wasn't for me.”
		

For Birth Control: “Loestsrin 24 Fe is horrible pill. It did not regulate me at all....I didn’t have my period for 6 months I thought I was going crazy, then my period would show up when I was taking the active pills such a horrible pill”
		

For Birth Control: “This is the worst birth control I have ever used. My breasts ache, it makes me cry uncontrollably, makes me have mood swings and a buzzing feeling in my girl parts.  I have spoken to other friends that have used it and they continued to take it even after the crazy symptoms. They levelled out in 3 months. Really? ! My male OBGYN will not change it so I stopped taking it and within 2 weeks feel drastically better. I have since changed doctors because of him not changing the pill. Obviously there is a kickback involved.”
		

For Birth Control: “Honestly, I read all these comments about how this birth control would make me depressed, gain weight, have horrible mood swings, etc... but I've been taking it for almost 2 months now and I've had none of these side effects. I really don't see a problem with this oral contraceptive but yet again we are all different and react differently to medications. My personal experience has been that I did notice breakthrough bleeding within the 2 weeks on the pill but it only lasted 3 days and it was very light. I have also read about people not getting their period but I have gotten mine right on schedule and it has been very light and basically just spotting. I originally started this pill to lighten my period and cramps and it has been very effective.”
		

For Birth Control: “Horrible hair loss after 3 months of starting Loestrin 24 . Stopped taking it because of it.”
		

For Birth Control: “It has been about a month since I've begun taking this medication. I knew from the start my body would begin to feel different but I did not know the actual severity until now. I was diagnosed with endometriosis and possibly PCOS so my doctor put me on birth control as the first step. However, I have gotten a horrible acne spill all over my forehead ( I rarely got acne prior to this medication). On top of the acne, I have the weirdest mood swings. Some days I will be super happy while other days I just want to bury myself in my blanket and cry all day. I am hoping my doctor prescribes another type of BC that could help in all!”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been taking this for about 3 months now and I’m MISERABLE. I was on a different Loestrin before (a 21 day) and that caused me to gain a TON of weight, and couldn’t control my eating habits bc cravings were so bad. Period was much better. BUT THIS ONE? awful. I start off okay mental wise the first two weeks, but like others said, I break out horribly on my chin &amp; it won’t clear up. THEN, my last 2 weeks my anxiety &amp; depression get so bad I can barely function. It’s gotten so bad. On top of that I’ve had a period every 2 weeks. My last 2 weeks of the pill packet as well I’ve had consistent cramps. Not enough to have me doubling over before I started birth control but enough that it’s quite uncomfortable. I’ve also started to notice it makes my boobs extremely sore. I am very sensitive to medications and noticed that I’ve consistently had yeast infections that I can’t get rid of because I keep taking the pill.”
		

For Birth Control: “I am not happy with this medication Loestrin 24 Fe. I switched birth control pills as my last pill made me gain 10lbs in a short amount of time. I lost it all after I went off that pill within a few months. After about 3 weeks on this particular pill, I knew it would be normal for my chest to be tender and my body felt a mess, but wasn’t expecting to develop acne on my jawline and neck, especially since I have never had acne before. My skin is now really oily when I typically have dry skin. I thought it was because the time of year and its warm but I’ve never had this issue throughout my life and I’m in my 30’s. Here come to find out after looking online, it seems like other people have the same problem, glad to see this thread and to know I’m not the only one. I’m on my last pill, and I will not be taking this anymore. Hopefully my skin clears up fast.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on Lo Loestrin for 3 months. During those 3 months, I developed horrible acne. I’ve never had issues with acne, so when I started getting huge breakouts that wouldn’t go away all along my chin and jawline, I wasn’t too thrilled. No matter what acne products I used, the breakouts would not go away. Additionally, this stopped my periods entirely. Before, I was taking the pill Junel, and I was having light, regular periods that indicated I wasn’t pregnant, which is always a relief. I had no way of knowing with this birth control since I never had a period. My face is starting to finally clear up after a month of being off of this pill, and I finally had my period again. I would not recommend this pill at all.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was given this prescription to help with VERY mild acne at the time, but mostly to help with my irregular cycle and unusually long periods. The first month I was taking this my period lasted about 4 or 5 weeks after, much longer than the usual week/week and a half. I also noticed how my acne specifically on my chin and jawline worsened, which was disappointing as I was sure this pill would help get rid of my acne not make it worse. My cramps are terrible around this time, and my breasts hurt so much it’s nearly unbearable. I am 4 months in and I am never taking this again, the only good thing about this is that after the first period the rest are short and regulated. Would not recommend this to anyone unless you can put up with the pain and cramps and acne.”
		

For Birth Control: “I used to take Microgestin with no problems. I was switch to the generic Loesterin and took it for close to two years before I realized that it was the cause of my anxiety,  depression,  anger, mood swings,  hypertension, the list goes on.  I never struggled with any of these issues before when I took the Microgestin but I just thought it was stress related. Since I had been on birth control for years with no problems I never suspected the pill.  I stopped taking the pill in March and I can finally  say I'm feeling like myself again.  I wish I would've put the pieces together sooner and stopped taking this pill when I first noticed symptoms.”
		

For Birth Control: “I started this birth control  because it was low in estrogen and all the other birth control I have tried would make me bleed constantly. I was only 2 weeks in and I started to bleed again so I stopped. My issue though is the TERRIBLE acne this has caused me. I'm relieved to see that there are others who share the same issue. I have never had acne this severe, I am so embarrassed to show my skin. I seriously just want to hide, I feel disgusting. I've broken so badly on my chin, back and slightly on my chest. I went to the dermatologist to seek relief, but it's still going to take much time to heal. This has by far been the worst birth control I have ever taken. I would not recommend this.”
		

For Birth Control: “I am almost done with my first pack of this birth control to help with my irregular &amp; painful periods. It has helped with pain and not caused me any pain BUT I have gotten horrible acne on my chest and chin &amp; my face skin has been super red and itchy. I am so glad to see other people are experiencing this. I will no longer be taking this medicine.”
		

For Birth Control: “I like this pill Loestrin 24 Fe, I do not have mood swings, weight gain or acne. So far it has pretty much stopped my periods each month. I just get very very light spotting for 2 - 3 days instead of a full blown period. I've been on other pills and I like this one better.”
		

For Birth Control: “I hate this pill!  I started taking this about 4 months ago, really didn't notice an issue.  Then, about a few weeks ago, I noticed my migraines have gotten worse, last 2 weeks I've had about 2-3 per week.  I haven't been on the Pill for over 3 years and I started being sexually active again.  I have also been feeling very light-headed and dizzy, like the room is spinning!  Now that I'm not seeing this new guy as often, I'm just going to stop cold turkey.  I was on Yasmin a couple years ago, I stopped because of the migraines.  And now, the same issues are coming up.  I guess I can't take the Pill anymore!   Oh well, and it's totally not worth being in pain all the time and I'll just use condoms for now on.”
		

For Birth Control: “This was the very first birth control pill I went on. I took it for about a year and it was the worst thing that has ever happened to me. I was so depressed I would lie in the dark all day and cry for no reason. I didn’t know why I was feeling this way and as a 19 year old college student at the time I knew something was wrong but just felt so disconnected with the world. The pill didn’t make me gain any weight but it made me feel puffy if that makes any sense. My boobs hurt soooo badly taking this pill I had to hold them just walking around. The day after I decided to stop taking this pill I already felt different. I would NEVER recommend this pill to anyone. I’m crying just typing this remembering how terrible it made me feel. I’ve had no history of anxiety or depression before taking this pill. While the pill gave me amazingly clear skin, it is not nearly enough of a benefit to continue taking the pill.”
		

  “Well I'm starting on day one. At one month shy of turning 44, I've been "diagnosed" with being perimenopausal. My ob/gyn put me on this today to help with the bleeding and moodiness. I'll update here In a few weeks on how it's working!”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on this pill for about 4 months and have not had any bad experiences. I have gained weight but it is because I eat like a pig and don't exercise! I have some cramping around when I will get a period but that's about it. My periods are VERY light and sometimes only a bit of spotting. Some breast tenderness and a bit of moodiness...but nothing that isn't manageable. I'm very happy with this one.”
		

  “Horrible acne. Outbreak of skin rashes all over. The worst experience ever. I've been taking this for 2 weeks for fibroids and am stopping tomorrow. I cannot sleep because of the rashes all over my legs back and arms. Huge chin pimples. Just a terrible product for me.”
		
6.3
Birth Control
