Lybrel
The Lybrel brand name has been discontinued in the U.S. If generic versions of this product have been approved by the FDA, there may be generic equivalents available.
Level 1 interactions:
amitriptyline
clonazepam
Klonopin (clonazepam)
melatonin
Xanax (alprazolam)
Level 2 interactions:
Synthroid (levothyroxine)
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “I am SO happy with this pill. I have been on it for around 2 years now and it has made a huge difference for me. I have probably tried around 5 different types before this and all came with side effects (acne, mood swings, depression etc.) The last pill I was on (Microgestin) literally made me insane, I was depressed and crying every day for months. I thought it was just me until someone mentioned it could be my bc. Immediately when I switched I felt my depression lift and have had no mood swings or depression! My sex drive is even back (it was very dead before).  I picked this one specifically and asked for it because it has one of the lowest amounts of estrogen than almost any other pill (thus less side effects). If anyone is having insurance problems, ask for Amethyst (it is the brand name for Lybrel) because  some companies will only pay for brand name or vice versa. So if it’s not free try switching to generic or brand name! Hope this helped!”
		

For Birth Control: “The first three weeks were terrible, dizzy, moody, brain fog...you name the side effect; I had it.  After 3 weeks I was ready to give up.  I would ask my husband everyday what his thoughts were. He knew the yo-yo of emotions my monthly cycle brought, how it effected work, relationships, sleep and parenting. This has CHANGED MY LIFE! 
The first 12 weeks (yup, 3 full months) I spot bleed everyday. I probably gained a few pounds due to water retention but that's gone.  Sex drive was eliminated, it has since resurfaced. 
All the side effects are now gone, I'm clear minded, level headed and NO emotional rollercoaster each month. No monthly bloating, mood swings or feeling like my blood was boiling. 
I would do it all again.  If you are questioning this or any pill you will want to give it 12 weeks...stinks at times but your body takes time. I've tried every other pill, IUD, antidepressants, no sugar, no caffeine... Etc. I don't get a period anymore.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on it for about 2 weeks and I feel zero side effects. I'm in my mid thirties and have had horrible PMDD depression for 20 freaking years! I started lybrel so I can stop my period for a while and have a break from those dark days. I was so worried lybrel would cause mood problems and I'm so relieved it has not. I give it an 8 rather than 10 because it's only been a couple of weeks. There's still time for things to go south but so far I'm so glad I started this! Only wish I'd done it sooner.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have an auto immune system disease, my monthly periods were a big problem my doc put me on lybrel in 2009 no problems helped in many areas. Every one is different may not be for every one.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on this pill for nearly 2 years. I have not had a single period and no spotting after the first 3 months. Which has been great because I used to have horrid cramps. On the down side I have become terribly depressed, and have gained a LOT of weight. After the pack that I'm on is out I am going off of this pill.”
		

For Birth Control: “I tried this pill for 6 months and have tried other low dose pills in the past, I sm 33 now. It did NOT stop my period and actually made me spot for weeks at a time with awful bloating and some weight gain. I finally gave up and tried natural products. Womb Sweep from Petalwise nearly saved my life. My periods aren't gone but come with zero cramps/mood swings and more regularity. Not doing pharmaceuticals ever again.”
		

For Birth Control: “Worst Birth control ever! My first month 2 months were great no period mild bloating a little weight gain and my boobs went up an entire cup size(No issues with this)...
Although I did start my period halfway through the second pack and it lasted for 28 days! And my symptoms were terrible I was so depressed and bloated the first 3 weeks of bleeding and then the last week I became extremely light headed and vomited at the smell of anything. I went in to see my Dr wanting to get answered and he had me stop taking it right away explaining due to the bleeding my iron had dropped dangerously low! And it was all thanks to this birth control. I have tried plenty of birth controls in the past and never had anything like this happen!”
		

For Endometriosis: “I took Lybrel or the generic equivalent Amethyst for many years.  In the first years I found it worked very well for me and I loved it. I never had a period!  Then I needed to take NSAIDs regularly for osteoarthritis which caused constant break through bleeding along with Endometriosis symptoms.  Whenever I discontinued use of the Lybrel to keep my lining from becoming so thin, my periods were dibilitating and extremely heavy.  Just started on Reclipsen with hopes of better results. I recommend this pill for anyone who does not regularly take any meds that can cause blood thinning.”
		

For Birth Control: “No more periods. I started taking this after Seasonique. You absolutely must take it at the same time every day. I cannot believe that I suffered through horrible PMS and periods all of these years. I was actually pondering a voluntary complete hysterectomy it was getting so bad. Last week I was in my closet and stumbled across my stack of boxes of tampons and pads I used to need every month. Who knows how much money I spent every month. I am sad that I did not pursue this freedom much earlier. Some doctors may try to talk you out of your freedom for one reason or another. Do not give up! Get ready to live your life!”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on Lybrel since it came out. It is an absolute miracle pill for me. I tell everyone about it. I have had no bleeding, no cramps since I have been on it. I used to have very heavy bleeding and terrible cramps. This pill has changed my life.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on YAZ for about a year and it was a horror trip. After lots of internet research and talking to my doctor I switch to Lybrel. This pill is THE BEST I've ever been on. My mood swings are gone and I have not had any noticeable side effects. Thank you Wyeth for this great product!!!!”
		

For Birth Control: “I used to take another oral contraceptive, which had 21 pill cycle, and was very happy- very light periods, max 5 days, no other side effects. But it contained hormone gestodene, which is not available in US, so I switched to Lybrel, because the ingredients are similar. When my other pills ended, I started Lybrel immediately, on my first day of period, as the instructions said. And the period lasted for two weeks. When taking the second pack- same two weeks. And now, with third pack things got even worse- my third period lasted for two weeks and now it's the end of the third week- I still have daily brown discharge.
The positive side is that I didn't have any other side effects. The idea of being period free was so tempting... Alas.”
		

For Birth Control: “Have been on Lybrel for 1 year now and get periods, breakthrough bleeding, spotting and cramps. I used to have a normal 28 day cycle and my period was 5 days, it was very regimented. Now I have periods randomly that last 7 to 10 days. I was hoping to stop my periods but this obviously does not work for me.”
		

For Birth Control: “I love this medicine! I have never experienced break through bleeding and have been on it for a year and a half now.  I had tried everything before this, generic birth control (made me emotionally crazy), the Nuvaring (could never remember to put it back in and it bothered him), Mirena (the wire bothered him) -- finally found this after all that and it's all about me -- NO PERIODS!  NO CRAMPING.  NO MESS.  Life, normal... everyday.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on Lybrel since it came out in 2007. I LOVE this pill! I used to get horrible cramps that got worse as I aged. My cramps were so bad that I would have to miss work. Since I've been on Lybrel, I've had very little spotting and no monthly cramps. Except for the 1 month I'm off the pills every year. I don't know what I would do without it!”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on this for a little over a year (it just came on the market in the summer of 2007), and I have had no problems with it whatsoever.  No breakthrough bleeding, no spotting, no periods (unless I missed more than a pill, then I had some light spotting).  I've had so many problems with other birth controls, ranging from Depo, to the patch, to the ring, to 13 different types of pills, and I finally found one that worked for me!”
		
7.8
5.0
Birth Control
Endometriosis
Summary of Lybrel reviews
7.6
