Mircette
The Mircette brand name has been discontinued in the U.S. If generic versions of this product have been approved by the FDA, there may be generic equivalents available.
Level 1 interactions:
clonazepam
Klonopin (clonazepam)
Level 2 interactions:
Lamictal (lamotrigine)
Synthroid (levothyroxine)
Topamax (topiramate)
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “I switched to this by accident from Valette — on Valette I had a very stable mood, clear skin, no weight gain etc.

This pill, on the other hand, is horrible. I had nausea for the first week and a half, cramps for two weeks and I’ve just come to the realization that my insane mood swings are from this pill. It’s making me very depressed and I cry often”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on Mircette the majority of my life (about 20- 30 years I believe?) with no side effects. It has really helped with severe cramps.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been taking this for PCOS, and have been satisfied with the drug so far. My periods are finally regular, it helps me maintain my weight, and my acne has gone down to minimal. Would recommend.”
		

For Birth Control: “So I was on a regular birth control ortho and gained weight and was super moody and crying g all the time. I got switched to mircette doctor though less hormones would be good they she was right. I lost weight, I wasn't a crying nonstop and when I was ready to have my son was pregnant within a month of stopping the pill. I ended up getting and IUD after and it was the biggest mistake of my life. It threw my body''s immune system into a panic and my health got worse and worse. Acne, weight gain like being pregnant etc Doctor removed and I am going back to mircette. Best birth control I have ever used.”
		

For Birth Control: “The Micrette pill was fantastic! I could lose weight on it and had no side effects.”
		

For Birth Control: “Switched from Ortho Tri Cyclen Lo to Mircette for the lower estrogen dosage but Mircette made me have ZERO libido. Even the thought of anything sexual made me go UGH. Whereas other BCPs gave me anxiety and depression this made me feel absolutely nothing. It's like I was on antidepressants. Made me feel robotic with no emotions whatsoever so I just decided to get off hormones altogether and got ParaGard the copper hormone free IUD. It's good for 10 years. I've had the IUD for 5 years now and love not having to take a pill or keep switching after your body acclimates to the drug and then you have to switch. Beware of the hormonal mood swings if you get off hormones though! It's a double edge sword!”
		

For Birth Control: “I started taking it on December 2017 I felt fine, minor headache here and there. Early February it all went downhill. I always had the lingering headache but dismissed it.  I developed hypertension 150/110, high heart rate (130s), palpitations, clammy hands &amp; feet, and extreme migraines in late February. The walk in clinic dismissed it as migraine. My PCP disregarded it as "anxiety" related hypertension. I also developed mood disorders from taking this pill (my doc wanted me on Zoloft). It caused my vitamin D to drop horribly, causing depression like symptoms coupled with anxiety. My cortisol levels were also high. I saw an endocrinologist who told me to STOP taking it as I had adverse effects that we're causing me these horrible symptoms. It's been 1 month since I have stopped and my anxiety is still lingering. I regret ever starting this medication. It did give me amazing short painless periods but my hormones went wonky. I also gained 15 lbs. Take at your own risk.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been  taking mircette for a year and the increase in my bust size is a bonus along with my acne clearing up but the number one thing is I'm not pregnant”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on several different types of BC that all made me nauseous/vomit until I found Mircette. I had absolutely no side effects with this pill. The only reason I stopped taking it was because my husband and I wanted to start a family. I stopped taking the pill in August and we conceived in October so it had no effect on my fertility. I plan on taking this pill again as soon as I finish breastfeeding.”
		

For Birth Control: “I took this BC for a year. My main reason for taking was due to recurring ovation cysts that ruptured every month and it worked wonders. As an added bonus it did its job as a birth control and without any side effects. I had no weight gain no acne no babies and no cysts. I didn't lose my sex drive. And when I did stop taking it I was pregnant the second month after. So it didn't effect my fertility which is a huge thing for me considering I miscarried after being on depo for 6 months.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was recently diagnosed with (thin) PCOS after stopping birth control for four years. The only reason I stopped my original pill was because they were no longer manufacturing it. I tried Mircette for a week, in an effort to manage my PCOS symptoms (low progesterone, acne, irritability, no menstruated cycles), and this pill was terrible. It increased my irritability, and gave me the worst cramps I've ever had. It was so painful, I couldn't even move/walk to get to the bathroom. My doctor said this is not normal, and to stop the medication. 

I haven't tried another one yet, and I'm considering going back to using my essential oils with natural progesterone. At least it improved my mood.”
		

For Birth Control: “I hate this birth control. I have gained excess weight, which never happened to me on any other b.c., and my PMDD is worse.
My doc gave it to me bc I get severe headaches the week before, of, and after my period. So basically 3 of 4 wks in a month. And I was having horrible mood swings. Extreme PMS...as I said PMDD. This was supposed to help bc of lower levels and regulating hormones.
Other than less severe headaches nothing has been lessened and I have gained 20lbs that won't go away. I am quitting this pill today.”
		

For Birth Control: “Switched from Ortho-Cyclen (Sprintec) bc of decrease in libido. Have trialed twice &amp; both times have had weight gain (10-15lbs), increased acne (I don't normally break out), and uncontrollable emotions. I literally would cry all month long, not just the week before my period. I have been super irritable &amp; have unpredictable mood swings. After this month (the 3rd month of taking) I will be discontinuing &amp; attempting a non-hormonal contraceptive - as I am prone to depression &amp; this medication is junk.”
		

For Birth Control: “I changed to this birth control at the advice of my gyn to try to treat my menstrual migraine headaches after being on tri-sprintec for almost 10 years. It did what birth control is supposed to do;prevented pregnancy and regulated my period but the side effects were AWFUL! I gained over 20 pounds in less than 6 months, had really really bad mood swings, and the medicine caused me to have bad headaches and migraines at least once a week. Even with dieting and exercise the weight isn't coming off and it's so frustrating. I never had these problems in my 10 years prior on birth control. It has gotten to the point now that I  have discontinued the medication because of the side effects. I hope others have better luck than I did!”
		

For Birth Control: “I hope people aren't deterred by other reviews on this site.  Typically people go online to leave bad reviews.  

I, on the other hand, have had a GREAT experience with this birth control thus far. I have been on it for about a month and have had no side effects!  Before Mircette  I tried EVERYTHING- Sprintec, tri-sprintec, the patch, the ring, Yaz, etc.  A lot of pills made me very moody, anxious, depressed, or excessively fatigued.  Some pills made me very sick to my stomach.  Mircette has been awesome.  My hormonal acne has already cleared up, I don't get upset to my stomach at all, and I haven't experienced mood swings.  I am thrilled that I finally found a birth control that works for me.  I HIGHLY recommend trying it.”
		

For Birth Control: “I HATED this birth control. It worked as in it prevented pregnancy and it regulated my periods, but the side effects were so horrible that I had to stop taking it. 

While I was on this birth control, I gained an extra 15-20 pounds that I COULD NOT LOSE despite the hours in the gym and the healthy eating. I felt like I was going insane... Hot flashes, extreme mood swings. The mood swings happened all of the time, not just during my period. It didn't help alleviate cramps or anything. I will never ever ever take this again.”
		

For Polycystic Ovary Syndrome: “I recently went back on this pill. I took this pills for the first time 3 years ago had no side effects. When off to have kids. I recently went back on and so far still very happy. I was on generess fe which made my face breakout very badly . Mircette has cleared it all up. No complaints at all I feel great on this pill. I also have PCOS so it's been helping me with that . Hope it continues to work as well as it is so far .”
		

For Birth Control: “Pros:
breasts got bigger (they're AA normally, so this was a big plus!), it worked (I didn't get pregnant), light periods, can skip periods by taking continuously.
Cons:
much more acne, dramatic mood swings (crying uncontrollably for no reason), nausea, weight gain

I only stayed on Mircette for three months due to the dramatic increase in side effects compared to Ortho-Tri-cyclen (which I'd been on for three years at that point)--especially crying easily and acne. I get mood changes with any birth control pill, but it was by far the worst on Mircette. Every other pill I've tried improves my acne, but Mircette made it worse. I did like the breast enlargement, but that wasn't worth being totally crazy with an acne-covered face!”
		

For Birth Control: “I went off of the Depo Provera after 6 years and on to Mircette because my husband and I are beginning to plan a family. I am almost finished with my first pack of pills and I have had very little complications, works just as well as the shot did except I take a pill everyday. I set an alarm on my cell phone to remind me so it's easier to remember it, and I take it at night so I don't get busy during the day and forget it. The only side effect I've had is breast tenderness but my body is extremely sensitive to the hormones. I'm even beginning to lose the weight I gained from being on the depo shot (not much, only 15 pounds after 6 years of it)! It's a great birth control but remember, every woman's body is different!”
		

For Birth Control: “I did not have any problems with it. I used it for one year and then later for two years straight. It is really good for short-term birth control. It is expensive, though. I could not use the generic Kariva. ”
		
6.2
Birth Control
