Natazia
Natazia contains a combination of dienogest and estradiol. Dienogest and estradiol are female hormones that prevent ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary). This medicine also causes changes in your cervical mucus and uterine lining, making it harder for sperm to reach the uterus and harder for a fertilized egg to attach to the uterus.
Level 1 interactions:
amitriptyline
Level 2 interactions:
metformin
No level 3 interactions

For Menorrhagia: “I have been on birth control for the majority of 20 years. Tried every kind. When I got off them, I realized that they had been amplifying my PTSD, anxiety, depression, anger, sadness, everything. I felt normal finally. Well, fast forward to having my first child at 34. C-section caused adenomyosis, endometriosis, heavy bleeding, and polyps. I also started getting more ovarian cysts that wouldn't go away. Eventually after a lot of research, I found Natazia. It's supposed to be the closest to bioidentical available. My mood is normal. I skip the placebos and estrogen only pills after having a 40 day period about 2 or 3 months after starting. Highly recommend taking them like this. 
Cons: the estrogen still irritates, so I'm still in pain (significantly less though!). Less sexual desire and dryness (not as bad as other pills!). I think its causing hair loss too.”
		

For Menorrhagia: “Absolutely INCREDIBLE pill. Natazia feels like I'm not even taking anything. No side effects at all other than really dry skin- no big deal. Without BC, I have nightmare periods that are horribly painful and insanely heavy that have been ruining my life &amp; causing anemia. I was out of options as no other BC pill (I tried Loestrin, sprintec, Apri, &amp; Ortho Tri Cyclen) was helping my symptoms and just caused a bunch of intolerable side effects and CONSTANT breakthrough bleeding with even worse cramps. This pill solved all my PMS symptoms and period issues and has given me a balanced mood and light pain free period that arrives exactly on time. I can't even comprehend how amazing I feel. This pill is changing my life. It seems too good to be true so I really hope it continues to work this well! If you don't tolerate other BC, definitely try this!”
		

For Birth Control: “No side effects, like other pills I've been on. The downside, decrease libido, very dry/painful intercourse and having my period for 8-9 days. They are very light compared to my periods when I was not on the pill for 4 years. Debating if the no side effects outweighs the cons.”
		

For Birth Control: “Started taking Natazia about 3-4 months ago. At the beginning, I experienced some breakthrough bleeding. My period would sometimes last for longer than seven days (up to 2 wks). In the 3rd month, I experienced debilitating anxiety and what I think is depression ( never been depressed before). What's interesting is that these feelings seemingly came all at once and rather suddenly. Always been anxious but this particular pill has over amplified my anxiety. Had trouble making simple decisions without worrying about and obsessing over the outcome. Traveling, which I do a lot of, became a serious issue which was never an issue before I started. Pros: my periods are lighter, acne has improved. Yet, the anxiety, depression, and even weight gain is not worth it to me. I'm glad that I detected these signs after only taking for a few months. If I opted to stay on them for longer, dealing with the anxiety, depression, and weight gain would have been unbearable.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve tried at least 5 different types of birth control &amp; none of them worked, I would gain lots of weight, they made me feel tired &amp; sad. Natazia  is a miracle!! I have PCOS &amp; was bleeding for months straight. 9 months straight to be exact. I was tired of it &amp; was finally recommended Natazia. After 6 months on it, my period is finally down to 3 days a month!! My cramps have seem to gotten worse but it’s better than bleeding constantly. Insurance gave me a hard time but after fighting, it’s free &amp; I don’t have to pay $300 a month. I wouldn’t recommend any other birth control other than this one, with no symptoms &amp; little bleeding, I couldn’t be happier!”
		

For Menorrhagia: “I am 47yo and approximately a year ago I've started to have irregular, heavy periods, depression and anxiety. After some tests, I've  agreed with my provider that I am in perimenopause and is normal to have some changes in periods, mood and you name it. I tried OTC medications and herbs with some temporary relief. Two months ago, everything got worse so,  my provider prescribed Natazia which is a life saver for me. No more irregular and heavy bleeding, my mood and libido returned to normal, less anxiety and depressed mood, and no weight gain. I am very happy with this pill. Unfortunately the co-payment is high..the insurance companies should adjust this...other wise woman with similar problems will not be able to purchase the product and get better. What about EQUALITY my friends??”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on this birth control for 6 years and am very happy. I had very painful periods that would cause me to vomit from pain before. Now I have absolutely no period on this pill and love it. I skip the placebo pills and haven’t had a period in years. I do not want to have children so I’m not concerned with any infertility issues. I tried other pills that gave me mood swings, breakouts, and weight gain. This pill actually makes me feel normal -when I’m not on the pill I feel like my appetite is crazy. This pill helps regulate my appetite, helped clear my skin, and I have no periods at all for years. I’m very happy about all of these effects and I will continue to only use Natazia.”
		

For Birth Control: “I started taking this birth control after experiencing bad PMS, heavy bleeding, and weight gain with my previous BC pills. The first few months were great. My PMS symptoms were barely noticeable and I was able to lose 20lbs over 4 months. But then I started getting my period a week before I was supposed to and it would last 7 days or more. After about 8 months the heavy bleeding and cramps came back. After 1 year I went in for my annual pap and it turned out I had fibroids on/in my uterus and an ovarian cyst. I have never had those issues before. I was told estrogen can 'feed' the fibroids causing them to grow and that can cause the heavy bleeding. Anyway, I got off this pill and decided to get my tubes tied since I do not want more children.”
		

For Birth Control: “I began Natazia at 14. I'm 21 so I've been on it 7 years. I have severe endometriosis, which is why I began the pill to treat it and preserve fertility. I've had laproscopy. Natazia made my periods very light and short or often, disappear. Pre-BC I had 12 day periods that were incredibly painful and heavy. Now I rarely bleed more than a day or two, even if I take the placebo. HOWEVER, I believe Natazia has caused incredibly severe and chronic issues for me. Appetite disorders, milia around eyes, severe anxiety, crippling depression, insomnia, exhaustion/tiredness, constant bloating, 10 lbs weight gain, nausea, headaches, nonexistent libido, dull hair, and uneven skin. I am very healthy otherwise as I am a college athlete and eat a plant-based diet. I really am considering stopping BC altogether this is truly unbearable. I'd rather bleed for 12 days than feel this way.”
		

For Birth Control: “I just started the first month on this pill. I was really anxious starting BC again because I had HORRIBLE experiences with other kinds of pills, including ortho-Cyclin, ortho-tri-Cyclin, Sprintec, etc. all of those pills made me feel constantly on edge and extremely nauseous. I was told to wait it out and suffered for 9 months with nausea and panic attacks almost every day and my skin and periods didn’t even improve. This is the first pill I have taken that I haven’t experienced any side effects! I’ve only been taking it for 2 weeks, but with the others I could tell within a few days. I think this pill is better since the kind of estrogen in it is converted into your “natural” estrogen in your body, plus the dosing increases so gradually the first week. The only downside is that I started to spot for a few days if I’m late by even a few hours, so I have to make sure I take it at the exact same time each day.”
		

For Menorrhagia: “My doctor lies to me. I was put on this pill after being in Lo Loestrin Fe that caused constant break through bleeding. I got on this one SPECIFICALLY to stop that. Guess what? 2 weeks in, just like loestrin and just like clock work, I'm having very heavy break through bleeding and cramping that has prevented me from moving or eating for 3 days now. Horrible pill that does nothing for me. Switching immediately.”
		

For Birth Control: “Side effects were absolutely not worth it, particularly as this drug costs $150 per month in my region of the USA.

Problems it caused:
Insatiable hunger, ~50 lbs weight gain
Milia around eyes
Swelling
Increased hair shedding
Wild mood swings
Drained energy
Worsened menstrual cycle

I discontinued it in February 2018 and most of the problems have abated. My menstrual cycle however is in complete chaos and I've spent the entire month of July bleeding with no end in sight. All I can do is wait it out as my physiology reasserts itself, but the expenses of needing to buy feminine hygiene products and various diagnostic labs/procedures are becoming untenable.

I would never take this drug again for any reason and do not recommend it to anyone, especially patients who struggle with weight or mood issues, hair loss, estrogen dominance, or endocrine disorders. Use condoms or get a tubal ligation and save yourself from an extremely expensive mess.”
		

For Birth Control: “Was highly recommended this pill by my doctor. I bleed 5 days before my period! It did shorten my period from 7 to 5 days. Will never take this pill again!”
		

For Menorrhagia: “I was prescribed Natazia because it has an extremely high dose of estrogen, which helped with my menorrhagia and massive clots. However, this pill caused me to experience mini strokes and made my doctors believe I had multiple sclerosis at 18 years old. An MRI showed that I was experiencing hemiplegic migraines and that this pill was the root cause. Do NOT take if you have a family history of migraines or stroke. This pill nearly killed me. But it did stop my period which was good.”
		

For Birth Control: “I switched between 8 different BC pills for 3 years 8 years ago and have been on this one ever since I found it. My periods used to be never ending. They would start heavy and last for weeks to months with only a week or two as a break from the bleeding. My iron and potassium levels were out of control and we were looking for a BC pill that would help control my body's apparent addiction. Natazia was it. I never once had any issue with it. No depression, anxiety, headaches, light head, etc. My insurance without warning decided to not cover the 200-300$ medication over the summer and I had to petition them with several of my doctors to get them to continue to cover it for me. It turns out that most insurance companies looked through all the Natazia reviews and decided that the majority of people taking it feel that it doesn't help them. But I feel like if it doesn't help you, you are obviously going to come off it and try something new.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on Natazia for 5 years. 
It is wonderful! No side effects, no hormones out of wack, light periods 2-3 days. 

The only birth control I will ever be on. 
”
		

For Birth Control: “Great birth control! I have been on 3 different ones until I did my own research and came across Natazia. I have been taking this for 2 months now and feel as though I'm not taking anything at all (no felt side effects). Periods are only about 2 to 3 days in length and very light. All my previous menstrual issues have subsided. Only issue is the 10pd weight gain...”
		

For Menorrhagia: “Diagnosed with Adenomyosis at 30 due to heavy out of control periods with extremely large clots. Fourth month on Natazia and it's reduced my periods to only 2-3 days of a light flow. Light enough where panty liners suffice. It's brought my life back to normal.”
		

For Birth Control: “Awful experience. Took Natazia for 5 days and became so depressed and anxious. I would start crying for no reason and have serious mood swings and feel very irritable/annoyed at everyone around me. My vision became very blurry and my eyes were more dry than normal (I have contact lenses). I was nauseous most days and felt very bloated. My migraines came back full force. I do not recommend this pill at all.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was started on this pill over 2 and a half years ago. I had tried a lot of different BC pills and read about Natazia online and asked my obgyn if I could go on it. This has been THE best bc pill I've been on! I rarely have periods if any and don't have any side effects.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on this medicine for 11 months. After trying numerous birth control pills, I was finally excited to try something that had decent reviews. However, it did not work for me. I have had two periods per month the entire 11 months I have been on it. I have breakthrough bleeding that lasts anywhere from 1-4 days, in ADDITION to two periods per month.”
		

For Birth Control: “I had terrible periods with excruciating pain and HEAVY bleeding. No birth control pill worked. I was depressed every other two weeks. It was a nightmare. I thought maybe I had endo, but a friend suggested Natazia. She had been taking it for a year and her symptoms went away. I asked for it, and my life changed. I tell people that Natazia healed me - no period symptoms, no mood swings, no migraines, no pain! The fact that it's not one does of hormones for one month makes so much sense - why did it take so long for them to develop this! It has different levels of hormones for each part of your cycle, giving you what you need or don't need! Dont give up if you don't see changes immediately- give it at least 3 mos!”
		

For Birth Control: “I started this pill because I was bleeding for nearly 3 months straight. It stopped my period but then the following months I would get heavy bleeding for 5 days straight. It also gave me horrible migraines at least 3x a week.”
		

For Birth Control: “First few months great, then break thru bleeding the week before and week of period, next month period lasted two and a half weeks, this month it is past 11 days cramping, heavy bleeding. This pill had been horrible for me.”
		

For Birth Control: “I had a tough time with my periods since day 1. Always excruciatingly painful, bloating, vomiting, heavy and lengthy 9+days. I had to miss a lot of school and later on had to miss a lot of work. Quality of life was very poor. I always had to plan my life around when my period would be coming because I knew all plans would have to be cancelled. Natazia changed all of that. I have been taking it for 5 years now and these days my periods are super light for 2 days with no pain. Cons.... since I've been on this pill ive noticed my vision has gotten progressively worse, I am moody, I have gained about 10 lbs per year that no amount of diet and exercise seems to be able to fix and finally I have NOsex drive, putting a strain on my relationship”
		
7.3
6.3
Menorrhagia
Birth Control
