Ocella
Ocella is a combination birth control pill containing female hormones that prevent ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary).  Ocella also causes changes in your cervical mucus and uterine lining, making it harder for sperm to reach the uterus and harder for a fertilized egg to attach to the uterus.
Level 1 interactions:
Xanax (alprazolam)
Level 2 interactions:
ibuprofen
levothyroxine
metformin
spironolactone
Topamax (topiramate)
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “If you have IBS or any issues at ALL with your stomach, I do not recommend this pill. Not only was I severely depressed, moody, and anxious more than I had ever been in my life, but I also had terrible bowel movements and stomach pain and pelvic pain. I could not eat anything normally for 3 weeks and I've been off the pill for about 2 months now and my stomach is finally just now regulating. Everyone is different, but this pill was the worst mistake for me. (I was only on it for a month)”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on Ocella when I was 16 for about three months. In those three months I became severely depressed, I was uncontrollably angry and sad every day of my life, I gained 20 pounds, and I became recluse. This might just be a unique experience for me but please talk to your doctor before you have your mind set on this birth-control. It barely helped with my cramps which is the reason I was taking it. I don’t think, in my opinion, that it was worth it. It took two years for the effects to wear off.”
		

For Birth Control: “I had high hopes for Ocella with all the good reviews I read, but no.....back story: I'm really 30s, PCOS lean and have already had to have a hysterectomy. This BC absolutely wreaked havoc on my stomach so bad that I've become intolerant to red meat. On top of all that awesomeness(sarcasm) it gave me horrible anxiety and turned me into an emotional mess.... I've switched to Happy Hippie Go With the Flow supplements and have had WAY better results. Because I'm PCOS and experience PMDD I've also switched to a low carb diet and pair that with exercise and I feel amazing.....but eating red meat now has me praying to the "porcelain god" for almost 2 days.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on Ocella for a couple of weeks and lost weight. It has completely changed my life. I used to have severe cramps every single day and I don’t now. I’m no longer bloated and going to the bathroom good. Acne has gotten a little worse and I’m a little nauseous at night.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on this Ocella for 3 weeks.. and currently now on the 3rd week I’ve been bleeding heavy for 4 days straight (breakthrough bleeding? With lots of clots?) which is highly irritating and I’m already wanting to stop the medication. Doesn’t seem normal.”
		

For Birth Control: “I love this pill. I tried so many others but this is the only one that doesn’t make me emotional. No weight gain and it’s helped clear my skin. I recommend this to everyone.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on Ocella for 2 months now, my period is so light that I think it’s implantation bleeding ! My cramps are very mild and I have no acne, I've been sad about absolutely everything but it hasn’t effected my life so much. This birth control is so much better then my other ones I have tried! I am 18 years old, I have never had a pregnancy scare. My periods last about 3-4 days”
		

  “68 and now having problems, I had a hysterectomy 30 years ago. Have heavy hair on face, all kinds of symptoms such as hot flashes, breast seem to have gotten smaller. After reading these postings went to MD and got Rx for Ocella. Hope it makes me better as some have said and gets rid of my symptoms I should not have at all after this amount of time. I sure would be happy to gain 2 or more in size!!!”
		

For Acne: “I went on Ocella about a year ago (freshman year of college, 18) to help with my hormonal acne that I had been struggling with since I was 15. I immediately noticed that I felt a lot more depressed/moody but I was also adjusting to college. Three months in, my acne was the worst it had ever been, but I decided to stick it out. Suddenly around 4-5 months, it started to clear up and my skin has been clear since! I also noticed some weight gain and water retention but that went away over time. I have also developed some issues with anxiety that I never experienced before the pill, but cannot really say whether Ocella directly caused it or not.”
		

For Acne: “Ok so I want to start off by saying I was prescribed Ocella but was given by my pharmacy a generic version of it. I was a little un-easy and nervous to take it because my previous experience with another birth control (Tri Lo Sprintec) was HORRIBLE! I broke out so bad all over one side of my face and chin and experienced the worst mood swings in my life. However with Ocella, it has been smooth sailing. I’m barely starting my third pack and my face has gotten so much better. I did gain about like 5 pounds since being on this BC however that could definitely be from lifestyle change. I would suggest a healthy diet/exercise as a good solution. I realized the pounds aren’t hard to lose if you eat right and  run. For BC use, I wanna say it’s working because I haven’t got pregnant but I don’t wanna Jinx it. So with that being said, good luck ladies, I wish you the very best. May the odds be ever in your favor”
		

For Birth Control: “Ocella  is my second birth control that I've tried in my life. The first one I took gave me acne and it stuck with me even after I got off of it! So when the time came to get back on one, I was terrified something bad would happen. But Ocella is awesome!! No acne, no irregular periods, no rashes or anything weird and no weight gain. The only downside is that when I first took it I was a raging you-know-what, but you just have to learn to control your mood swings better. Other than that I LOVE Ocella for the fact that it doesn't give me acne or make me gain weight.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on this pill for 3 months and so far it has been fairly good.

Pros:
-regular periods
-low cramping
-PMDD not as bad
-doesn't cause acne
-no crazy mood swings
-prevents pregnancy, as it should!

Cons:
-weight gain/ difficulty losing weight
-massive breast size increase (good for some people but not me)
-headaches during placebo week
-mild stomach upset on first day of resuming medicated pills

I am guessing that the lack of real effectiveness on my acne is due more to my weight rather than the pill itself. Hopefully after a few more months it will be better!”
		

For Birth Control: “I just started Ocella about 3 months ago. I like it so far but I’m not sure how much it’s working so far, just because I’m not far into the journey yet. My first period was very light. Not much cramps but I did have some and when I did have cramps they were horrible. My mood has been good besides when people irritate me I get moody. I also have another pill I take and I don’t know if it interferes with Ocella or not.  My acne has cleared up a ton but I do get random pimples.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on Ocella for about a year and 7 months, I was put on it after I took Loestrin Fe 1/20 due to break through bleeding after 6 months of taking it. Ocella never gave me any noticeable side effects. No weight gain/loss, no depression or anxiety. Periods always on time. And it 100% prevented pregnancy. The only side effect that I still barely get is slight nausea if I am awake super early. It tremendously helped my acne and my periods are always on time. Remember every person will have different effects on their body but I feel as if this will reassure some people on it. However, the one thing I just started noticing was the blood clot and DVT risk being higher in BC’s containing drospirenone so with that being said I will be looking into changing to a different brand (only because I’m a worrier about stuff like this).”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on Ocella for about 14 years. I didn't gain weight nor get acne. It was actually a GREAT experience. I'm now getting off it to clean my system but I highly recommend this pill. I would get my period for about 3 days with no pain.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on this pill for a year then tried to switch to Nexplanon so I wouldnt have to remember to take a pill every day - HUGE MISTAKE. At least for my body. I'm back on Ocella and I'm BEYOND happy with it in comparison. Gives me the clearest skin, went from B cup to D cup without gaining weight elsewhere, and its worked well as a birth control so far!

Ladies- the scariest thing about birth control (besides all the nasty side effects) is you really won't know what works for you until you try it. Everyones bodies are different and will react in different ways.

I hope you find what is best for you :)”
		

For Birth Control: “About to finish my first month of this Ocella birthcontrol I was prescribed it by my gynecologist for my acne, because my Tri-Sprintec wasn’t helping anymore. So far this has been one of the worst months- horrible headaches, chest pains, and the worst would be the anxiety I’ve experienced. I’ve always had anxiety but this past month it has been completely out of control and crippling. I’m not sure what I’m going to do because I’ve read it takes three months for my body to get used to the BC, but I don’t know if I can take this much longer.”
		

For Birth Control: “This birth control has overall worked very well for me. I originally started birth control for acne and extreme cramps when I was 14 (I’m 26 now) and had first tried Tri Cyclen Lo which gave me a 3 month period and then tried Lo Estrin Fe which gave me a lot of cystic acne on my neck. Ocella I think helps my acne by balancing my hormones (I’m high in testosterone) and has made my cramps non existent. My period now only lasts around 3 days and is very light. The only downside is I think it’s made me gain about 10 lbs since restarting it after a few year break at 22 (I’m 26)... but weight gain may be from age as well.”
		

For Birth Control: “I started using this a as a purchase recommended from Nurx (20 years old) also, doing some research I figured this would be great considering I had a horrid experience with Lo Lostren Fe which gave me terrible anger and mood swings, huge cystic acne, which the doctor said it would help with my acne. Now switching to Ocella I don't see a difference besides I'm not getting as many pimples but I still am getting a new painful pimple every day which is so frustrating. Not sure how I feel it has been almost 2 months not and I am now starting to bleed on and off. I am very disappointing );”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been taking ocella for a couple months now, and my sex drive is through the roof! My skin looks better and I feel better.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on Ocella for almost three months and it makes me sad over everything. I also started getting nauseous a lot after awhile but other than that it works fine for me.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have used this since it was Yazmin and for the most part it certainly helps, but one huuuuge thing I absolutely hate about this medicine is how emotional it makes me. I took a break from it for a couple of years to try other methods of helping my PCOS symptoms since I wasn't worried about pregnancy. When I started up again I really started noticing the major symptoms again. Nausea is present for me personally for the whole first month and again the first couple of days of each new pack. I cry at EVERYTHING HAPPY OR SAD. This I particularly hate because it's not the cute little one tear or two it's full on ugly, nose running, eyes swelling kind of crying. It's basically like going through puberty. every. single. month. I will say in the positive category it really helps keep my acne under control and my cyst formation is really low. So if you want to roll the dice on the mood swings it's a pretty good pill.”
		

For Birth Control: “Ocella seemed ok for a while until I started getting dark brown spots on my face. This was odd because my skin has always been like porcelain (even toned, no acne.)  I went to a dermatologist because I thought it may be a side effect to Botox injections but upon evaluatinon, he said it was from my birth control. I was confused but he said that the hormones can cause “MELASMA”.. He said it may take years to go away after I stop taking birth control or it may NEVER go away.  He said I can try bleaching creams but there is no permanent treatment for it. I have spent $600 on bleaching creams and nothing seems to work. I can still see it through my makeup and it makes me self conscious. At least with your guys’ issues, they go away once you’ve stopped. But for me, this may be a lifetime effect :( I really wish I was more informed. It’s sad the things us women put our bodies through while men merely complain about condoms. No more for me. It’s not worth the toll on our bodies.”
		

For Birth Control: “I started taking birth control before I married my husband.  I was extremely worried because I have depression and did not know how the pill would effect me.  My doctor told me to expect some nausea with the first month or so of taking Ocella and for that first month or so I definitely had some nausea but after that I have been fine.  My acne has cleared up and I haven't had any unexpected mood swings.  The only negative I saw was weight gain which made fitting into my wedding dress a little more difficult but it wasn't too extreme.  The positive was that I went up to a C from an A in cup size.  I have been on Ocella for almost a year and have had a positive experience overall.  Especially before I took Ocella my periods have always been long and painful.  Now on it I have noticed that my periods have progressively gotten shorter and I have had a lot less pain from cramps.”
		

For Birth Control: “HORRIBLE EXPERIENCE.  Took it two times and was overcome by horrible irritability, depression and ridiculous thoughts.  I am a positive person and this was AWFUL.  As soon as I stopped taking it my mood went back to normal.  I felt as if Dementors (from Harry Potter Series) were sucking my soul.  AVOID!”
		
7.8
7.0
6.3
Acne
Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder
Birth Control
Summary of Ocella reviews
6.5
