Ortho-novum
Ortho-Novum 7/7/7 (ethinyl estradiol and norethindrone) is a combination birth control pill containing female hormones that prevent ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary). This medication also causes changes in your cervical mucus and uterine lining, making it harder for sperm to reach the uterus and harder for a fertilized egg to attach to the uterus.
Level 1 interactions:
amitriptyline
Level 2 interactions:
levothyroxine
Synthroid (levothyroxine)
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “This is an awful pill that made me depressed and have crying fits for no reason. These issues went away as soon as I went off it.”
		

For Birth Control: “I got off this pill for a few months because I realized how bloated and moody I was 2 weeks before my cycle. Even though this helped lighten up my cycle and shorten it. Anyway I got back on it this month and after the first day I immediately noticed my mood swings and my craving for food. This is crazy. I am going to finish this pack out because and only because I need my cycle to come on the day its supposed to but after this I am not going to take 7/7/7 any more. Crazy how this effects you physically and emotionally. I am also not motivated to do anything...again crazy.”
		

For Birth Control: “With Orho-Novum 7/7/7 I had HORRIBLE mood swings almost right away. Boyfriend even noticed it when I started taking it. Very depressed and extremely irritable all the time. I was on different birth control in the past and never had this issue.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been using Ortho-Novum 7/7/7 for decades. My periods are very light only requiring a panty liner and experience no cramps. I stopped taking birth control for a year after my husband had a vasectomy. I was doubled over at my desk with cramps and my period was very heavy. I started using Ortho-Novum 7/7/7 again and I was back to light periods and no cramps. Once and awhile my OBGYN would give me a sample of another brand that was new on the market only for me to have heavier periods and cramps. Two issues I can't aleviate are bloating 3-5 lbs for a week and period mood swings. With AHA it's free. Without it is about $25-$30/ month.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been using Ortho Novum 777 for about 6 months now, I switched from the Xulane patch that I had been using for 6 years. I thought the side effects from the Xulane were just me until I switched. On Xulane, I was experiencing heavy flow, migraines, mood swings, and a crazy sex drive, and was really hard for me to lose weight. Now I no longer experience ANY migraines, mood swings and my sex drive seems a lot more normal. I also have only a 2-3 day light period. The first couple of days taking Ortho Novum 777, I experienced light nausea but after that no more. I am not sure if this pill had any effect on me losing weight since I started exercising and eating healthier at the same time but I've lost 27 lbs.”
		

For Birth Control: “made me puke the day before i would get my period EVERY MONTH. Very unhappy. Switching immediately. :(”
		

For Endometriosis: “I was experiencing quite a bit of nausea and breast discharge at first, but then I started to lose my hair and it never stopped!! ”
		

For Birth Control: “23 yrs ago I was using ortho 777 and I got pregnant  ( so did some others ) but that's ok because I have an amazing son”
		

For Birth Control: “This was my favorite pill for almost 20 years. Little to no side effects (with the exception of a little nausea for the first pack or two).  My skin always looked radiant, my periods were super-duper light every month, no cramping, and I never once had a pregnancy scare. Only reason I am switching is because I am now in my 40's and am starting on a 20mcg dose pill.  Would love to stay on it, but lower estrogen doses are considered safer for those over 40.  For younger women who have issues with painful or heavy periods, acne, or who just need highly effective birth control, I highly recommend this pill.  It is available as a generic as well (Necon 777) which seems to work just the same.”
		

For Birth Control: “I only had one side effect, which was nausea, the morning after the night I took it, and only that one time. I have had zero other side effects, and the nausea hasn't come back. I am very happy with this, especially got being my first try with birth control.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on it for a year and thought everything was fine. Lighter, regular periods with no cramping - it was doing the job. Until, I linked my 10 month hair loss to the pill. I stopped taking it and my hair started to grow back. I was never aware of this side effect, so I wanted to share.”
		

For Birth Control: “I had my first baby at 15 years old, I was not on any method of Birth Control. I have been on the pill ever since I was 16 years old. Stopped the pill at 24 to have a baby and had twins. Then went back on it for 5 years and stopped it to have another baby, then started the pill again. After 15 months I stopped the pill to have another baby and been on it since. This pill is wonderful. I would reccoment it to anybody. They work very well.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on this birth control for a few months now and I love it! I was very concerned about side effects, but after sharing my concerns with my lady doctor, she suggested I try this pill. My breasts were a bit tender for the first few weeks, but that's it. My breasts grew, my periods are now only 3 days long and no PMS. I love it!”
		

For Birth Control: “I used this birth control several times. I have tried others, the shot, Alesse, etc. But in comparison, 777 is my favorite. My periods were shorter, lighter, minimal to no cramping, no weight gain, no crazy mood changes, and the birth control was stable, no spotting. It was great. I am going to talk to my doctor about getting back on it. I only stopped to try for one more baby, but am so over that idea.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on this medicine for 5 years until I had to switch because I was producing too much estrogen. During the time I was on it, I had a decrease in bleeding and I lost 5 pounds. During the time I was on it was my only use of contraceptive and I have never been pregnant. All of my friends are on it and they love it!”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “Works well for heavy periods.”
		
7.0
Birth Control
