Previfem
Previfem is a combination birth control pill containing female hormones that prevent ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary).  Previfem also causes changes in your cervical mucus and uterine lining, making it harder for sperm to reach the uterus and harder for a fertilized egg to attach to the uterus.
Level 1 interactions:
clonazepam
Level 2 interactions:
levothyroxine
prednisone
propranolol
Level 3 interactions:
tizanidine

For Birth Control: “I really don't like this pill. I was on it for about two months in a desperate attempt to change my period so I wouldn't get it on my wedding night. I visited the porcelain gods about 2-3 times a week at 2 AM (it was recommended I take this before bed with a little snack, which I'd done for years with a different birth control). No matter what I did, my stomach would become upset. After two months I decided there was no way sex could be worth a constant upset stomach and I stopped taking this. Best decision ever. Now I'm on Lo Loestrin Fe and I've had no problems.”
		

For Birth Control: “This has been the worst birth control pill I’ve ever taken. I was on Sprintec since this year had started and recently started taking previfem (3 months ago) and had not stopped bleeding, mood swings are horrible, and makes you very bloated and gassy, and I would not recommend this pill to anybody !”
		

For Birth Control: “I used to take Mononessa, but it's discontinued so I'm on Previfem. On Pravifem I crave food ALL THE TIME. My period is thicker/clottier than before. I have itching, extreme bloating, upset stomach, frequent nausea, etc. I don't have acne breakouts so I cannot comment on if it helps with those, but my skin is dryer than usual. My mood swings are fierce. I've been on this med for over 6 months and I feel depressed, then angry as anything, then get sad, and then go numb. I had mood swings during my first 3 months on Mononessa and then never again. I have also experienced dryness during sex and extreme drop in libido. 

In general, avoid this train wreck if you can. If you're going to try this because your insurance pays for it, only give it a three month trial MAX (unless the side effects are just too drastic). If after 3 months the side effects haven't subsided, quit and try something else. I mean, I didn't get pregnant, but also I have next to no sex drive so...”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “I was put on Previfem for PCOS when I was 14. within almost a month of using it I went from having 1 or 2 periods a year to bleeding so heavily that I could fill and leak out of a super plus Tampax tampon in 4 to 5 hours.”
		

For Birth Control: “This pill is so awful! I normally take mononessa which worked just fine. They were no longer carrying mononessa and I was assured that this was the same thing. I got the worst migraines. My breast were enlarged and hurt like hell. It was sooo bad! Not only that, I was nauseous and throwing up. I was anxious ! I gained weight and I eat healthy and workout 4-5 times a day. I had pregnancy symptoms and wasn’t even pregnant. I was completely exhausted. My sleep patterns were all over the place. It was hard to work and concentrate. I had very little sex drive! DO NOT take this pill. I swear please. It’s not worth it ! Took it for 2 months and quit”
		

For Birth Control: “This  Previfem was the first birthcontrol I tried, I was hoping to prevent pregnancy and reduce my severe period cramps. I’m not pregnant, but I have terrible nausea, constant gas and bloating, 0 sex drive, itching down there that I saw someone else mention as a side effect of this. Depression really got worse and hating my bloated body all the time definitely didn’t help. Doesn’t matter when or what I eat, I feel constantly sick. Stuck with it for 3 months and nothing has changed. Would never recommend this pill”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on  Previfem contraceptive pill for 2 plus years and overall it worked great for me. I had terrible acne before taking this pill and it went away almost completely after I started taking it. Over the 2 and a half years taking it I only gained around 5 pounds (mostly due to unhealthy eating) I did get a little irritable around the time of my period but nothing out of the ordinary. No spotting or irregular bleeding either while on this pill. The only reason I stopped taking it was because I was getting migraines so I had to stop estrogen pills completely.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “Like many others on here, I was switched to Previfem from Sprintec because my pharmacy stopped stocking it. I was not notified of this prior to pickup. Since then, I've had unpredictable and polonged periods outside of anything resembling a normal menstrual cycle, and significantly decreased libido and sensitivity. I've now been on this for well over three months, and have seen no improvement in these symptoms. I also experienced intense nervousness, tingling sensations, and anxiety on the first day of the pill switch, but that dissipated in three hours or so.  

The takeaway: if your pharmacy switches you from a birth control you know works well with your body, call and either request that they order more, or take your business elsewhere. If you need help finding one, try asking your doctor. You deserve better. Love you all, and take care of yourselves!”
		

For Birth Control: “Reading other reviews on Previfem was such a relieve. The side effect that was the most significant for me, and by far, was the depression. I had never experienced something like it. I thought I was feeling that way due to some personal issues in my life at the moment, but as it turned out, it was these pills. You always hear of such side effects and think it won't happen to you, but this was like an anvil for me, very much present. I felt so sad and alone, it was terrible. I only took these pills for a month. My usual Mononessa is not available anymore so I was given Previfem as a substitute. I left it after the first month. At the moment, I am taking this opportunity to not take anything, to cleanse my body after years of taking birth control and use condoms. Let's see what happens. But no matter what, I am not taking Previfem again. How can it be exactly the same composition as Mononessa and yet have such a profound negative effect?”
		

For Birth Control: “Overall, this pill got rid of my acne. I’ve had severe acne since I was 12 and I’m 18 now. HOWEVER the first month I was on this pill I acquired a huge boil on my hip but I brushed it off thinking it was just a fluke thing.. nope! I’m on month 2 and I’ve now had one on my face and 4 on my legs. Also, my mood swings are outrageous”
		

For Birth Control: “I work at a pharmacy and I get my prescriptions filled there as well. However, my pharmacists constantly switch me between sprintec and previfem and I know they're virtually the same thing. However yet again, every time I get put on previfem, my breasts get very sore by the second week of the pack, I get more acne flare ups, and tend to feel just unwell. It does it's job but I am just miserable on the stuff. I'm having trouble understanding why if it's all the same ingredients why is it making my body feel so different.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been taking Previfem for almost a month now and it’s been making me nauseous, very irritable, low sex drive, having trouble staying wet during sex, emotional, and it gave me a yeast infection. I do not recommend this birth control. ”
		

For Ovarian Cysts: “Stay away from this brand. I know everybody is different, but I've seen more negative reviews of this pill than I would be comfortable with, and I have to agree. I was on Previfem for a while a little more than a year ago, and I had just about the worst side effects you could have. It seemed fine at first, but for months, I would be woken up early every morning feeling so feverish that I thought my head was going to explode. This was also accompanied by extreme nausea, sometimes even vomiting. I had been off of it for a while, but I was recently diagnosed with PCOS. I thought I was being prescribed a different brand this time, given my history, but to my horror, this is the brand the pharmacy gave me. I was desperate for something to help with my PCOS complications, so I figured I would just try again and see what happened. Here we are on day three, and all of a sudden the same symptoms I had a year ago are coming back. I am never taking this again.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was put on this medication to try to keep my estrogen levels steady. This medication has made my menstrual cycle last for almost 3 weeks now. I stopped taking it after only taking 5 pills because it was making me feel bloated, and nauseated. I can only imagine taking it longer.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on this form of birth control for going on 3 months. I've never been on birth control before. The first side effect I noticed almost immediately was vaginal itching, I kept thinking it was a yeast infection. When the yeast infection symptoms started again the next month after my period I did more research and realized that it wasn't a yeast infection but a side effect of this drug. 
The next thing I noticed was my mood swings. I equated the mood swings and anxiety to the fact I was working, moving and planning a wedding. Well now those things are done but I still feel so emotionally unstable and depressed. I started to think something was wrong with me. It's comforting to read that these feelings are a side effect of this drug and I plan on getting off of it ASAP. 
Oh one other side effect is my libido is almost nonexistent.”
		

For Birth Control: “Literally started this birth control 3 days ago &amp; I missed 1 day of classes from feeling extremely nauseous &amp; went to school the next day &amp; soon as I got there, felt soo nauseous, I threw up &amp; got sent home. I used to be on pills but not this kind, then stopped birth control all together for about 2 months. Tried the patch and when I would take it off it would leave little itchy bumps on my skin. THEN was going to give Depo shot a try &amp; decided not to due to all the side effects I’ve heard about &amp; the fact that i hate needles. This was my next option &amp; it literally has been the WORST feeling 3 days of my life. I will be getting off these pills very soon.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have now been on my period for 11 weeks. I give up with it and will be switching. I have had headaches almost every day and I have gained a lot of weight. I was prescribed Prozac about the same time I started this birth control but after reading the reviews I think my symptoms are from this birth control rather than the Prozac. Anyways a period for 11 weeks would make any woman run away. This was an awful experience”
		

For Birth Control: “Do NOT take this birth control. For the past 5 years I’ve been switching my pills for different reasons, the last time I switched was because I wasn’t getting periods at all (I know stupid reason to complain, right?” So they switched me to Prev, worst decision ever. They told me it helps clear up acne but I already have little to no acne and I was getting the worst breakouts of my life in spots I NEVER breakout. Instead of not having a period, I bled for 3 and a half weeks straight and/or spotting almost every day. My MOOD swings on this pill were unbearable. I was so depressed and so anxious 24/7. 0 sex drive. I would randomly start cold sweating profusely (when I wasn’t even hot), Would wake up almost every day with a killer migraine that would last all day.  I’ve been off this medication for a month now and I have not had a migraine since, I feel like myself again. Man PLEAAASE do yourself a favor and don’t take this pill!!!”
		

For Birth Control: “I started taking this bc not even a week ago and I've been nauseous and had migraines this entire time. I've been so sick that I decided to quit this brand completely.  When I drove in a car,  worked out or even ate my own dinner I would get so sick that I'd have to stop.  I don't recommend this pill but everyone's different so I cant tell you what will be your side effects, or if it'll work well for you.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’m on the first week of these pills because my pharmacy literally switches my BC each month. I’ve been nauseous on and off, I have anxiety attacks every day,  depressed thoughts, and I’m exhausted. I’m so over this, why do I even bother taking birth control”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been taking Previfem birth control for over a year. So far no major side effects but I do notice a lot more break through bleeding specially a week before my period. Mood swings are also something that happen more often along with bloating. I have little to no sex drive. No hair loss. No weight gain.”
		

For Birth Control: “Used this for 5 years, was amazing for the first 4 years, no issues. The last year I was taking it all of a sudden I had yeast infections every period, long painful periods and no sex drive what so ever. Over time the side effects just grew to be unbearable. I ditched pills all together and me and my boyfriend just use condoms for 5 months and all my symptoms went away”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “Well I was on mononessa which was fine for a first birth control it didn't give me side affects which was impressive!  Now they gave me these birthcontrol pills previfem because mononessa was discontinued and now after being on it for a week here comes the side affects! The spotting and no sleep! Ugh”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on this birth control for almost a year now. If you want to prevent pregnancy it's great, but it KILLS your sex drive. I haven't wanted sex since I started this pill. I gained 18lbs and I eat decently healthy. Plus I exercise every day. I have noticed terrible mood swings as well as depression. My life isn't crazy stressful. I bled for two weeks straight in December 2017. I just finished a month long period two days ago. I've never been this irregular! After months of saying "I'll give it another try." I AM SWITCHING! As I said before, great at preventing pregnancy only if you want all the bad side effects that comes with it.”
		

For Birth Control: “My Pharmacy switched me to Previfem , without asking or notifying me, from another brand of BC because the whole seller didn’t have my brand in stock. The pharmacy said it’s essentially the same. However, it’s a generic and this brand uses different inactive ingredients. My OB is mad, and said I can take it but there were specific reasons he has me on my original brand, and asked to notify him if my pharmacy can’t fill my original brand. 
I have clear skin. I have always had clear skin. I now have acne all over my face, chest, and back. I’m with ridiculous bloating, gas, constipation, and mood swings. Nothing in my life has changed, except the pills. I’m beyond pissed. Whenever I get back to my original brand, I’ll go trough more changes.”
		
9.0
6.0
5.3
3.4
Endometriosis
Ovarian Cysts
Abnormal Uterine Bleeding
Birth Control
Summary of Previfem reviews
4.1
