Reclipsen
Reclipsen is a combination birth control pill containing female hormones that prevent ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary).  Reclipsen also causes changes in your cervical mucus and uterine lining, making it harder for sperm to reach the uterus and harder for a fertilized egg to attach to the uterus.
Level 1 interactions:
clonazepam
Level 2 interactions:
levothyroxine
prednisone
propranolol
Topamax (topiramate)
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “Worst Birth Control I've ever taken”
		

For Birth Control: “This birth control although effective gave me the worst acne of my entire life. I have been off for 6 months now and around month 4 my hormones started to regulate again and my face looks so much better. Now I’m just working to get rid of the scarring and uneven skin tone. I tried many different things while taking this birth control to help with breakouts but nothing worked!!!! If you are breaking out and taking this switch or get off BC all together .”
		

For Birth Control: “I would definitely NOT recommend reclipsen. Just two weeks into taking it my chest broke out, and my chin. Also now I’m EXTREMELY greasy for no reason!!!! If you’re looking for a solution for acne this is not it. Also now I have a pimple on my cheek!!!!”
		

For Birth Control: “Hated this birth control!  It was effective, sure.  Regulated periods, check (although I never had an issue with that before).  The worst thing about this (for me) was that it gave me horrible mood swings!  I did not recognize the person that I was while on this BC and it didn't occur to me for a long time what was causing me to act this way.  I was so mean and I'm normally a very happy, chipper kind of person.  I eventually just decided to do without and haven't gone back since (2+ years).  I feel SO much better.  It only took a few weeks for me to feel "normal" again.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on reclipsen for 7 months so far and I believe this will be my last. I started tracking how I feel every single day up to my cycle day. I started to realized reoccuring symptoms on the same cycle days of the medication! I'm finally throwing in the hat. Last month my neck became sore and my shoulders and back pain has escalated! Well now I can't even move my neck side to side on the same cycle day. I believe this medicine has not helped my IBS (irritable bowel syndrome), has made me have heart palpitations, a few days before my period I get really deeply depressed on the same day every month and have extreme dark thoughts. I've had tooth aches, headaches, strong cramps, black blood, bladder pain, extreme weightloss, no appetite, dizziness, seizures, constant anxiety, extreme fatigue and weakness and all these weird things over the course of the last few months. My periods wouldn't come till 4 days into the sugar pills, and I would suffer the last week of the pills, and 3 days into my period.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been taking reclipsen for about 8 months. It works well as a birth control pill to help control periods. But I’ve experienced side effects. Over the last 3 months I’ve been taking it I started breaking out all over my cheeks &amp; forehead. This isn’t commonly a side effect of this brand pill, but I can’t find any other reason for the breakouts. I’ve changed my face wash routine/products and regularly wash my sheets and try to not touch my face. I’m going to ask my doctor soon to change the prescription.”
		

For Birth Control: “I used to be all organic for 28 years. I started this birth control and now I’ve been on it for almost a year now. I gained an insane amount of weight 15-20lbs total. I would have a ravenous appetite, be moody and depressed. Crazy amount of anxiety and overall unhappiness. I would always be so energized and this made me lazy and sad. I would have really scary thoughts, loosing my self confidence. The worst part of this drug was finding bald spots in my hair. I have thick healthy really long hair and I felt so sad and heartbroken to find bald spots. I was devastated and decided then and there to stop it. I never want to be on birthcontrol again. I am really scared to ever try this again I will be using condoms instead. I will highly recommend that no one try this drug it is unhealthy and the side effects are just traumatizing.  I don’t think this type of drug should be approved by the FDA by the amount of negative side effects it has on women.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on Reclipsen for at least a year. My periods were always set and wouldn't last a full week, they'd generally last around 3 days with moderate bleeding. I never got any acne really, I would maybe get one pimple a month closer to when I was about to start my period. My mood seemed fine. I never had any spotting. Now that I think about it I did have a lower sex drive.  Overall, I would recommend Reclipsen! I recently switched birth control through no choice of my own but I'm seriously debating on going back to Reclipsen.”
		

For Birth Control: “I took reclipsen for around 10 years with no issues. My doctor said I could ride this out until age 50 as I didn't have any risk factors (except age as I was over 40).  Out of the blue, I got a groin to knee DVT and the cause was this stupid pill!!!! I am so very lucky it didn't become a PE and I could have suffered a horrible disability or worse.  7 months later and I still have long term effects from the DVT and the damage to my leg caused by it.  When I asked by doctor if they would be reporting as an adverse reaction to the FDA, she said "oh, they already know." which tells me, the side effects (especially the serious ones) are under-reported!!!!!

Find another method of BC!!!! This isn't worth it!”
		

For Birth Control: “I took reclipsen for about 5 years. For the last year I was spotting everyday. My doctor thought it was possibly a uterine polyp but once she did a hysteroscopy (put a camera in my uterus) she discovered that my uterine lining had become dangerous thin due to the pill. I immediately stopped taking it. I used to be blotted everyday, but since I stopped the pill my stomach is flat and I dropped 10 pounds almost instantly. My boobs did shrink once I stopped but it was a fair trade for the weight loss. The worst part about all this is the 3 months after I stopped the reclipsen I've been experiencing insane hair loss. Every time I brush or wash my hair it comes out in wads. I can now see my scalp through my bangs. I would never recommend reclipse”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on this birth control for one year exactly and I mainly went on this for my skin but I didn't notice anything different with my acne when I was on it compared to when I didn't take birth control. The only thing I can say was that around the time I got my period, my face was the clearest it ever was and then as soon as my period stopped, I began to breakout again. I think with this birth control I did gain weight, probably around 15-20 pounds. It also made me very moody. I never got so upset/mad as easily as I did when I was on this. I felt like an emotional wreck at times because I would get mad so easily and I hated it. I decided that this birth control, while effective for preventing pregnancies, was not for me.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on reclipsen for less than 2 weeks and it caused blood clots. I had DVT and Pulmonary Embolisms. I'm one of the lucky ones that lived through those diagnoses. I had taken other BC on the past and always had terrible side effects but never had an issue with clots. I also have no other contributing factors besides being overweight. I was 26 and never smoked in my life. No genetic issues either. I advise everyone to be careful when considering any birth control option. Know the signs of blood clots. It could save your life. ”
		

For Birth Control: “First month was absolutely horrible. This is my first birth control pill. The nausea seemed to occur 2 hrs after taking the pill (I take it at 3pm everyday). I was also unmotivated and felt like my back ached all the time. 

Then it got better. I don't get headaches anymore. But looking back, I definitely gained weight, like A LOT. I didn't lose my sex drive. Anyway, I'm okay now.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on Reclipsen for a month. I started it to see if it would decrease my flow and cramps.  My mood dropped drastically when I first started. Depression usually last for a period time,  so I wasn't depressed. However, my mood was very low to the point that it was scary. When my period came it felt like the worst ever. My flow and cramps were bad. I have other side effects as well, such as nausea and headaches.  I'm going to see if my body adjust to it for two more months only because I need a solution for my periods. I've been on birth control in the past and I've never had these side effects.”
		

For Birth Control: “For the 3 years I was on it I had ravenous hunger, low blood sugar crashes, low libido, stress, and anxiety. I had just quit smoking and wasn't used to eating instead of having a cigarette. I started on Ortho Lo. I thought I was just stressed with finishing school but the moodiness didn't stop so after a few months they put me on Reclipsen. The nurse told me it was her favorite one and I wouldn't feel a thing bc it was a monophase and wouldn't make my hormones jump around
...like they are Supposed to naturally a few times per month. Looking back I just wish I had realized it wasn't "Me handling life so weak and vulnerable." It was the pill. Hormones cause feelings. BC pills have FAKE hormones!”
		

For Birth Control: “I take the pill at the same time every day and it has been effective in preventing pregnancies, however my sex drive is now non-existent whereas before I had an extremely high sex drive. I also have vaginal dryness now which is very annoying. Haven't had any other issues besides that but it is frustrating to deal with at times.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on reclipsen for years now. It's been horrible,  but I've felt trapped to stay on it. I do not believe in IUDs &amp; many other forms of birth control so my primary care doctor felt this low dose would be best. We've never had any unwanted pregnancy, so it's  effective in that manner. But here are all the issues I've had with it: mood swings, depression, anxiety, emotional instability overall, low sex drive, vaginal dryness &amp; migraines. I'll be getting off of it soon with the guidance of a new obgyn.”
		

For Birth Control: “So I started taking Reclipsen about four months ago. At first, everything was fine. My periods became regular and tolerable and the oiliness of my skin went down. However, about a month ago, I started experiencing horrible mood swings. I already had depression and anxiety but this greatly exacerbated the issue. I started snapping at people, crying, and having suicidal thoughts. I went to a doctor for mood stabilizers and it was almost impossible to find one that didn't react with the Reclipsen. I ruined numerous relationships during that time. I stopped taking it and within one day I felt calmer. I'm definitely not taking it again and will be looking at an IUD.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on Reclipsen for 1 month as of next Sunday, and i must point out that there are some downfalls of this birth control. Reclipsen does work very well as a reliable birth control method as long as you follow the instructions that come with the medication (taking one pill once a day at the same time daily). However, since a few days after I began taking reclipsen, I've been running into some issues concerning painful headaches and acne flare ups. I've been on Ortho-Tri Cyclen birth control pill in the past, &amp; I do not remember having any issues as far as headaches or acne while I was on that medication. Reclipsen is reliable, but do beware because you may receive some uncomfortable side affects when beginning this medication.”
		

For Birth Control: “Started taking Reclipsen three months ago and it was horrible. It brought on anxiety and intense mood swings along with depression, I'm finally getting off of it but do not buy this if you already have anxiety!”
		

For Birth Control: “I loved being on Reclipsen. I started taking it when I was 20 and had no side effects, probably because I was active in college and had other things to distract me. I'm now 26 and stopped taking Reclipsen so my husband and I can start trying for a baby, so far the effects of coming off Reclipsen have been horrible. I can't wait to get pregnant and have babies so I can go back on Reclipsen!”
		

For Birth Control: “Horrible. Horrible. Horrible!!! Do NOT take reclipsen. I'm finishing off my 2nd week and I've been miserable! My heart rate has been crazy. I've been having panic attacks that I haven't had in a long time. I've had a migraine for 2 days now. Nothing will make it go away. I've basically OD on headache medicine. I've felt so dizzy and light headed. My depression has came back. Screwed up my sleep. Super nauseous. No appetite. Some people say they've gained weight, but I've lost 7 pounds in 2 weeks, NOT the healthy way. I've been so miserable and it's sooo not worth it!! Save yourself and DO NOT TRY IT!!!!!!”
		

For Birth Control: “I am not happy with reclipsen. I have gained a ton of weight in the last 3 months I have been on it, I get super nauseous in the mornings, and I have one extremely bad migraine on the last day of the pills. I changed to reclipsen because my other BC was giving me headaches. Now I'm fat and have zero sex drive. I am going to stop reclipsen asap.”
		

For Birth Control: “A lot of the reviews on here are scary, but I think it must be personal chemistry that decides if this medicine will work for you or not. I've been on it for 2.5 years and I didn't really have any physical side effects. I maybe had some breast pain when I started it, but cutting down on caffeine cured that. I do have anxiety, but I don't think I can blame this pill for that, it's kind of just my personality. Overall, this pill has just done it's job for me.”
		

For Birth Control: “I'm 19 and have been on this birth control since I was 16. I love it so much I've never noticed any bad side effects. I have gained weight but that's probably because I've gotten older. I recently just switched to the nuvaring because I am horrible at remembering to take the pill and am more sexually active now.”
		
5.8
Birth Control
