Safyral
Safyral contains a combination of drospirenone, ethinyl estradiol, and levomefolate. Drospirenone and ethinyl estradiol prevent ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary) and also cause changes in your cervical mucus and uterine lining, making it harder for sperm to reach the uterus and harder for a fertilized egg to attach to the uterus. Levomefolate is a type of B vitamin that helps prevent a rare birth defect that could occur in a baby if pregnancy occurs while taking birth control pills or shortly after stopping them.
Level 1 interactions:
amitriptyline
doxepin
Norco (acetaminophen / hydrocodone)
Level 2 interactions:
Cytomel (liothyronine)
Depakote (divalproex sodium)
metformin
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “I was put on Safyral in 2010, and took it for about 4 months.  The nausea was the main reason I came off of it.  I always felt terrible and I gained a lot of weight fast.  My period never came back after I came off the pills.  I was still able to get pregnant twice, still no periods.  Just this year (2020) I had my first period in almost 10 years!  I have had hormone tests, papsmears, everything and they all have said that theres nothing abnormal.  But it's weird that I had a normal period like clockwork before I started that birth control and the almost 10 years of nothing.  Btw I am now 28yrs old, so I'm nowhere near menopause.  I do not have PCOS or any other hormonal issues.  The only thing doctors can think of is possibly this birth control did something.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on Yasmin for a number of years, until my OBGYN recommended I switch to Safyral for the added benefit of folate calcium, which is a good supplement for women. I had bad acne in the past, and so far my skin has been clear, my energy levels have been good and I haven't noticed any adverse side effects. I was told that this was essentially the same as Yasmin, and I had a good experience on Yasmin as well. I do still get the occasional breakout, but it's nowhere near as bad as it used to be.”
		

For Birth Control: “For the most part, I really liked this Safyral as a birth control. My obgyn switched me from Loestrin 1/20 to this due to periods that went on for 2.5 weeks. My body got used  to those hormones I guess.  This pill gave me clear skin, no surprise bleeding, NO weight gain and no babies. My periods were regular but a bit heavy the first 2 days just like my days before birth control and sometimes I seemed to get diarrhea, which might be why I never felt bloated on this pill. Sorry for the TMI. My obgyn said with the heavy flow and diarrhea, this pill might have been too strong for me. I ended up having to switch to Zarah due to the cost of this pill. There was no generic available at the time. But otherwise, this was a good pill. Nowadays I am on generic ortho micronor. I was advised to switch being 35 and a smoker.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on Safyral for years. I'm in my forties. In my 20s I had major cramps, bloating, cyst, heavy periods and severe mood swings . The mood swings included me crying at commercials, yelling and snapping at the smallest thing. I was so not myself the week before during and a few days after my period. I was then diagnosed with PMDD and put on Yaz, it was a life changer. No mood swings or heavy periods. Then my doctor recommended me to move to Safyral after reported issues with blood clots while on Yaz. It was an easy transition and even better, I don't get a period. At all. I would recommend if you don't have mood swings, depression or change in your behavior during or before your period this may not be the pill for you. The good thing about pills is you can always try and if it doesn't work for you stop taking it; not like the  shots where you' re stuck for three months. Talk with your Dr. and really list your symptoms and work together to make the right decision on your pill.”
		

For Birth Control: “This was the first birth control I was put on and was on it for 3 months. It seemed great to begin with, I had regular periods, didn't gain weight, no nausea, basically no side effects. During this time period my anxiety peaked and after the second random panic attack at the end of my third month, I finally realized it was the birth control and quit it immediately. I literally thought I was losing my mind, but now I realize it was just the hormones driving me crazy. I'm not sure what they put in this drug that could make a perfectly healthy person develop psychoactive illness, but it's just not right. I would never again sacrifice my mental health for contraception and have refused to try any birth control pill since this terrifying experience. I felt like a completely different person.”
		

For Birth Control: “There are 4 pills left in the pack and all I can say is I am happy I have finally found the pill that works for me. I've tried a few different birth controls but they all made me bleed for months on end.  had the Depo shot in my teens, came off of it I had to go to the hospital. Tried it again at 25 years old: had 1 shot and bled for legit 5 months straight. I requested a low lose pill. Took lo loestrin fe for 1 month and that made me VERY on edge, angry, depressed (I'm usually happy). Told my doctor I was "done trying birth control!", but she persisted I try something else. She identified progesterone was too much for my system and thus came SAFYRAL. I legit have zero side effects. Best decision ever. Going to get my new pack tonite!”
		

For Birth Control: “This is the ONLY birth control pill that's been effective for me; I tried around 4 other pills before I discovered this one. No breakthrough bleeding (one of the biggest problems I had with the other pills) and it's made my periods so much lighter (I used to bleed through tampons and pads and now my period is way lighter). I haven't gotten pregnant so I guess it's also doing what it's supposed to do, lol. Another bonus: I used to get painful cystic acne on my chin whenever it was my time of the month, and since beginning this pill I haven't had to deal with any acne whatsoever! The only problem I have with it is that I cry a bit more than I used to, but I don't really mind.”
		

For Birth Control: “I switched to safyral two months ago after losing my insurance and needing free samples to carry me until my new job provided me with coverage. I have been on ocella and Yasmin, depending on which was free at the time of refill, since I was 15 (now 26) and have had a great experience. My periods were always regular, minimal breakthrough bleeding (only occurring when I missed a pill or 2), no cramps, 3-4 day periods with very light bleeding. Since switching to safryl I experience consistent breakthrough bleeding. Three to four days before I expect my period I get nauseous, dizzy/faint, and get HORRIBLE cramps. I'm really looking forward to going back to ocella. This is not similar to ocella and Yasmin as I was told previously.”
		

For Birth Control: “I started this pill about a year ago. I was on a couple other birth control pills before. This pill made me gain a bunch of weight, frequent breast pain, and horrible cramps. My emotions are always out of control. I eat healthy and workout at least three days a week and shouldn't be gaining all of this weight. The bloating when on my period has gotten dramatically worse. I would recommend not taking this pill. I am in the process of getting a different pill.”
		

For Birth Control: “EXTREME nausea and vomiting after only one day.”
		

For Birth Control: “so I am on the sugar pills of my third month on this birth control and I have finally concluded, I am not going crazy, its the pills.The first month was great, I lost about 5-6 pounds, felt wonderful and no babies! the second month was just as good until I got to 2 days before the sugar pills. I began getting terrible cramps (not normal for me) and even worse back aches (normal but not this severe) I was crying uncontrollably over my 'friend' who hadn't texted me that day and went through at least 3 uncontrollable rage spells, and got so exhausted, I couldn't keep my eyes open (I go through insomnia, one bonus about this pill is that I got A LOT of sleep) this month its worse, I can't even speak to my Dr. without wanting to scream.”
		

For Birth Control: “So I'm barely on my first pack of this but I'm a little worried. I've been on probably 5 different birth controls. Sprintec, ortho tri cyclen lo, lomedia 24 l, amethyst, etc etc. With those I would eventually have breakthrough bleeding that wouldn't stop so I kept switching. Ortho tri cyclen lo was awful I broke our so bad. So my doctor suggest a higher hormone dosage since I kept having breakthrough bleeding. Since I've started this, my stomach hurts a lot kinda like cramps, I have headaches, my breasts have gotten a lot bigger and they hurt to barely be touched, I also see to have gained weight obviously with my breast being bigger. I'm scared kinda but I read to give it a few months and hopefully it goes away. No bleeding though”
		

For Birth Control: “In the beginning I was very moody for the first two months, but it keeps my periods regular which is nice. I switched to safryal from loestrin due to stress induced breakthrough bleeding. This pill is very effective as a contraceptive so far, and that would be so helpful if I actually had 1/4 of the sexdrive I used to have before using it. Once I hit the 3rd month it declined drastically. My boyfriend and I went from having sex on average 6 times a week down to maybe once every couple of weeks and that only happens because I feel terrible that Im not as into it as I used to be. It's not that anything in that department has changed, I just don't want it. At this point I'd rather go back onto loestrin. I would've continued it if I could've.”
		

For Birth Control: “So I've been on this birth control for about three months. In the beginning I was hungry all the time and it really upset my stomach. After about three weeks that was gone and it was awesome. No babies. Easy periods almost no cramps it was too good to be true. Now here I am three months into the pill and I've hit a horrible depression. I've never been depressed. But everyday I cry and get so sad I can't go out and I don't want to eat or do anything. I've diminished. So I've decided to get off the pill immediately. I think I'll stick to the condoms. I would rather use condoms than be overwhelmingly sad all the time.”
		

For Birth Control: “I started Safyral in April for irregular menstrual cycle and severe pms my only complaint was that for about a week or two I was spotting off and on but my periods are very light I'm use to very heavy flow no backaches cramps I still will get an occasional pimple literally 1 or 2 a few days before my cycle but no acne mood swings or depression my only regret is not starting this sooner”
		

For Birth Control: “I was put on this birth control at the age of 14 due to severe ovarian cysts and breakthrough bleeding from other pills. It was absolutely wonderful the first two years. My skin glowed, I kept a great weight, my periods were always on time. However, all this soon went down hill around the third year. I started to have overwhelming feeling of depression wash over me multiple times during the day, I became sluggish, I didn't want to do things with friends or family, and my relationships suffered greatly overall. After stopping this pill, my mood swings diminished and I feel like my old self again. Never going back to this pill again.”
		

For Birth Control: “I just finished a package of Safyral yesterday, and so far I've had no weight gain, my acne has cleared up some, and my period came when it was supposed to. However, I have had spotting all through the first month, which the doctor said was normal so I have no complaints other than one really big one. While being on this pill I have had serious depression. I'm always moody, crying and sad. I am so sad that I have no appetite, no desire to go out, I'm never happy. In fact, I get raging angry sometimes and I can not control any of this. I am hoping that this side effect goes away soon.”
		

For Birth Control: “I love this birth control. No weight gain, acne cleared up, shorter/lighter periods. Only problem is I can't tolerate wearing my contact lenses for very long (no more than 4hrs). Best thing about it, no babies!”
		

For Birth Control: “Ive been on this for about a month, and the first week was great. But then I started to bleed heavily, and it hasn't stopped for two weeks. I've got bad back aches and terrible acne, as well as bloating. I'm looking forward to switching off this and on to Lo Loestrin Fe.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was concerned about starting Safyral after reading some of the reviews here, but have been pleasantly surprised by how easy my transition onto it has been. I was not on any contraceptive previously, and when I started my Safyral regimen my ONLY side effect was very light spotting for the first month. Not only did I escape mood swings, weight gain, acne, nausea, etc., but my usual menstrual symptoms (bloating, cramps, breakouts) have become almost nonexistent. I am not yet sexually active so I can't speak to Safyral's effectiveness as a contraceptive, but I've been very happy with it in the meantime.”
		

For Birth Control: “Safyral has been a great birth control pill for me. I lost water weight from my previous birth control plus some, skin is clear, no unusual mood swings. My only complaints about it is from 2 days before my period until 3 days into it is I get a bit of stomach bloat and my left ankle tends to get sore and swollen when on my feet too long. Sometimes I crave sweets at certain times of the month. The pill is more expensive, but a great birth control pill. I highly recommend it.”
		

For Birth Control: “My experience with Safyral had been an overall good one, but it didn't start out that way.  During the first month all through the second month I had horrible mood swings. Borderline depression it felt like.  But after the second month it went away, I started feeling better. I've had no acne. No weight gain. Lighter flows. So I guess this pill is different for everyone based on the other reviews, but this is a great one for me and I plan to keep using it for a long time.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was put on Safryal two months ago after being on Camresem due to breakthrough bleeding. Safyral definitely took care of that issue, but it came with several others. I now have very painful cramps just before and on my period. My periods last 7 days and are very heavy (which is normal for me off of birth control), and I'm constantly bloated. I also get headaches more than usual, and have gained about 4lbs and cannot lose weight at all. Going tomorrow to hopefully switch to a lower dose again.”
		

For Birth Control: “As far as birth control and periods went,  this was fine.  My periods were much less crampy and painful,  my skin didn't change at all. However,  it was like my personality completely flipped. I felt robbed of my sense of adventure,  I had absolutely no interest in going and doing fun things with my family. I've never had depression, but I think this must be what it feels like. I stopped taking it and am almost back to my old self,  even though I'm back to having terrible periods.  I will take cramps over how I was acting any day of the week.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on this pill for two years. I switched to this from Ortho Tri-cyclen because I was having breakthrough bleeding. One month into it I was having terrible cystic acne, two months into it I had a severe panic attack. Two years later I am incredibly depressed and bloated before my period along with crazy migraines for 3-4 days straight. I am unable to lose weight even with running 4 miles a day. I am switching to Lo Loestrin 24 Fe and will try a lower dosed pill. I have also experienced terrible leg cramps and fatigue like never before.”
		
6.2
Birth Control
