Seasonale
Seasonale is a combination tablet medicine that contains ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel. Ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel are female hormones that prevent ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary). This medication also causes changes in your cervical mucus and uterine lining, making it harder for sperm to reach the uterus and harder for a fertilized egg to attach to the uterus.
Level 1 interactions:
Ativan (lorazepam)
clonazepam
Level 2 interactions:
Lamictal (lamotrigine)
levothyroxine
prednisone
Topamax (topiramate)
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “I was on Seasonique for 2.5 years and just stopped due to insane acne. I’m 40 years old and I have acne worse than ever in my life. I’ve been off the pill for almost 3 months now and it’s still there and painful. I noticed the acne several months into starting this pill, but it would come and go. Now it doesn’t go away. I’m worried this acne is permanent. It’s embarrassing at my age and I look hideous.  Other than that I had no other side effects. I switched to this pill to help with menstrual migraines and it really did help. I justified the acne because reduced migraines was worth it. Not anymore. Beware. If I could go back to my 20 year old self I would say “Never put these poisons in your body! Treat your body like a temple.” There’s a good chance BC caused my migraines to start when I was 23.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on the Seasonale pill for three or four days when I had one of the most horrendous breakdowns ever...I couldn’t stop crying and screaming - my poor fiancé! My anxiety was out of this world...would wake up in the middle of the night for a few hours with raging anxiety. I finally couldn’t take it anymore and stopped taking it, two days later I felt like myself again, guess it’s going to be no glove no love!? Lol”
		

For Birth Control: “I was happy on this pill until my doctor took me off because of high blood pressure. I'll miss it and I'm upset that I can't be on it.. No periods for 3 months. I don't think i experienced any side effects but I do get headaches and cramps which I see as normal as they weren't everyday. I loved this pill. I have no issues that i know of. Everyone is different with different issues.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on Seasonale for 6 years now. I’ve never had any side effects such as weight gain, decreased sex drive, etc. Every 3 month package I take, I’ve never had a break through unless I forgot to take my pills for a few days. It’s been the most effective birth control for me. I love it”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on Seasonale for almost a year. I didn't experience any negative side effects such as weight gain, headaches, or decreased sex drive, however I have had a fair amount of breakthrough bleeding. In one cycle the breakthrough bleeding lasted for over two weeks until it was finally time to take the placebo pills. Every other 3 month cycle, I get breakthrough bleeding for about a week and it's heavy enough to be a period. It's typically successful in preventing a period for a month and a half to 2 months, but at that point it doesn't seem like it's strong enough to override my natural hormones.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've now been taking this birth control for the last 6 months and only have great things to say. I'm no sex industry worker however I am receiving regular loads exceeding 20 or more per week. My sexual drive has not changed or been a concern during this prescription. My vagina has been extremely moist and always ready to go.  I'm extremely pleased with how effective  this prescription has been operating and I would highly recommend this to anyone. Thumbs up seasonale.”
		

For Birth Control: “I decided to switch from Ortho Tricyclen Lo to Seasonale, because I didn't want to have a period every month. The only good parts about this pill are no pregnancies or monthly periods. Besides that, this pill has ruined my sex life. I've been on it for a little over two years and have experienced the worst vaginal dryness despite being turned on. At first, I thought it was my medication for mental health, but after tapering off and stopping it, this issue hasn't gone away after a year. This birth control is the only medication I'm on. Today, I finally switched to a new pill, so I'm hoping this problem goes away.”
		

For Birth Control: “I am waiting to start a period, it's day one of the placebo.  I did have some nausea in the beginning but to  be expected when switching from the IUD to the pill.  I haven't had any breakthrough bleeding or anything.  Mild cramping at normal time that I would be normally expecting a period but I never did bleed.  But I am not pregnant, haven't gained weight and didn't have break through bleeding so it's doing it's job for me personally.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “I have been taking Seasonale for 2 months and I had to stop on month 3. The side effects were awful! I had night sweats, waking up at 4 am every morning for no reason, lots of spotting, huge appetite with weight gain and severe depression and anxiety. The depression and anxiety was the worst! I do suffer from depression and anxiety but it's not as bad as this medication made it! I stopped taking it and about 4 days later I felt so much better. Now I'm having a cycle and its been over a week now and hoping it will end sometime soon.”
		

For Ovarian Cysts: “Ended up with painful ovarian cysts”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “My doctor put me on Seasonale to control my horrendous periods. Unfortunately I suffered with them because of fibroids &amp; perimenopause. Everything else was ruled out. I gave it 4 stars cause it did help with my bad periods, but I did bleed for 6 months straight (mostly spotting). I gave it a chance, just wasn't for me. My doctor put me on Apri, &amp; I'm doing good on it.”
		

For Birth Control: “Extreme weight gain since I’ve switched to this pill. I’ve been on it for 3 or 4 months.”
		

For Birth Control: “I just switched to a Seasonale generic about 2 months ago after being on Junel Fe for about 10 years. I switched because I noticed my hormones started to change, periods were getting heavier, and I had been getting cystic acne breakouts at least 2x a month. Ever since I switched I haven’t had any breakouts. I’m on the extended version so I have not gotten my period yet (it comes once every 3 months), but so far no spotting or cramps for the 2 months that I’ve been on it. Overall, I’m happy with the switch.”
		

For Birth Control: “Works great for me. I no longer have cramps while taking Seasonale. I switched to Tilia Fe when my new insurance didn't cover seasonale and I started having bad cramps again. So I am changing back to Seasonale even if I have to pay the cash price.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “This birth-control is the worst! If you were OK with having consistent bleeding for over a month, then this is for you. If not, try something else because this is not worth it. I am now on week eight and still bleeding/spotting. I wish I would’ve read the reviews before starting this prescription. I hate it. If I could rate it a zero, I would.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on this pill since the end of April, and everything has gone downhill since then. I bled for 21 days straight, then the bleeding stopped for about two weeks. After that, I bled everyday for the remaining two months, up until the sugar pills. Once I started a new pack, everything went great for the first two weeks. However, I started bleeding AGAIN midway into the third week. It was at that point, that the remaining patience I've had for this pill was lost. Yeah, this birth control truly does prevent pregnancy, because it prevents you from having sex in the first place, due to the never-ending shark week. :( I'm switching to a stronger pill, because this is my FOURTH month on birth control, so I should not be bleeding this much.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on Seasonale for about 9 months and it has worked great so far! I switched from Sprintec because I noticed that I was moody, had low libido, and felt very nauseous often. It can be kind of scary not having a period for three months on Seasonale, however, because of not knowing if you are pregnant or not, but I have not had any scares (I took my pill religiously besides a couple times). I noticed that cramps are a little worse when I do have my period, probably because I don't have my menstrual cycle as much. Overall, I don't get moody or nauseous nearly as much as I did on Sprintec, and it's so nice only dealing with a period 4 months a year instead of 12!”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on Seasonale for almost a year and I am switching to Sprintec. I am switching because the breakthrough bleeding and cramping became ridiculous. I would have my withdrawal bleed, have about 1-2 months of peace, then the spotting began and would not stop. I'd double up for 3-4 days or however long it took to stop it then go back on 1 pill when the spotting stopped. 2 weeks later the spotting would return, rinse and repeat. The cramps during the breakthrough bleeding were worse than the cramps during the withdrawal bleed! I've had enough of this pill and am switching to Sprintec and hoping for the best.”
		

For Birth Control: “Been on Seasonale for 5 weeks. Results are varied, have had slightly​ nauseous the first two weeks. Now gave been spotting the last two weeks”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “I have been on Seasonale for over a year now, and it is the only birth control that has actually worked for me, after going through 6 other brands. I went from having very heavy periods and cramping for 7 days, to having a very light (hardly there) period every 3 months. It also managed to clear up the cystic acne that came along with it. My only issue with it was that for the first month or two on the pill, I did have some spotting and bleeding, but it quickly went away, and haven't had any bleeding since then. Other than that I haven't experienced any other symptoms, and I highly recommend Seasonale!”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been taking Seasonale for almost 3 years now. I'm 21 &amp; pretty healthy. When I started, I had breakthrough bleeding for about 3 weeks and a little nausea. Before Seasonale, I had 8 day heavy periods and would get pretty bad cramping. With this pill, I have a very light period once every 3 months, no cramping at all and no other symptoms. I have had no weight gain, rarely any breast tenderness and it prevents pregnancy, so I can't complain too much. My ONLY problem with this pill is that it gives me acne in waves. I'll go a month with very little acne, then for a few months have lots of breakouts, some of them painful. I never had any acne prior to taking the pill, but now I do.. Otherwise, I highly recommend this pill”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been taking seasonale for two months now.  I noticed I have been extremely tired and have a low sex drive.  I gained weight while on it which is not like me because I am very careful with my body.  I feel very blah and low now that I am on it.  I had breakthrough bleeding right away and have spotting every time I shower or go to the bathroom.  I do not like how this pill has made me feel.  I am going off of it today.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “I started taking Seasonale 3 months ago as my previous birth control medication was no longer effective. I take it to regulate my periods as they never regulated on their own. Everything was going well (no pain or abnormal bleeding) until this past week when I got my period while taking the week of inactive pills. I have recently suffered 48 hours of intense breast pain and swelling (way worse than "tenderness") where the pain hits in waves and makes it nearly impossible to do anything. I am exhausted from being in this much pain. I have also experienced my left breast "leaking" for most of the day which is really uncomfortable.  My body now thinks it is pregnant which is something I should not have to deal with. Not taking this again.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “I started the Seasonal Pill because the heavy bleeding caused me to become very anemic to the place I had to get iron infusions. It does make me crave everything, my sex drive is going down a little and I have been bleeding for a while. It went from using a pantie liner to using pads and I'm not even thru my thrid pack of pills. Not sure If I can handle the bleeding like this. And lets's not mention the cramps. I have never in my life had cramps like this like someone is on the inside of me scraping out my inside. I don't think I can hang.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on Seasonale for 3 months. I bled constantly from March 9th-April 4th. I doubled up on pills for 22 days and 2 weeks ago I stopped doubling. I began bleeding and having moderate cramps again three days ago. I do not recommend this pill. Bleeding for 28 days straight is not normal.”
		
7.0
5.9
5.0
4.3
Endometriosis
Birth Control
Ovarian Cysts
Abnormal Uterine Bleeding
Summary of Seasonale reviews
5.7
