Seasonique
Seasonique is a birth control pill that contains a combination of ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel. Ethinyl estradiol and levonorgestrel are female hormones that prevent ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary).
Level 1 interactions:
Klonopin (clonazepam)
melatonin
Xanax (alprazolam)
Level 2 interactions:
Lamictal (lamotrigine)
prednisone
Synthroid (levothyroxine)
Topamax (topiramate)
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “My mood swings have never been so bad. I used to only get bad PMS about a week before my period. Now it’s all the time. Also, between the last couple periods, I’ve been getting blood clots and constant dried blood so I was pretty much on my period for 3 months. This is the worst birth control I’ve ever been on”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on this birth control Seasonique for 5 years and unfortunately didn’t recognize the bad side effects until a few months ago. I really enjoyed only have 4 periods a year but it wasn’t worth the MAJOR hair loss, almost daily panic attacks, weight gain and stints of depression. Since discontinuing taking the pill 3 months ago, I have lost 20 pounds without changing my diet or exercise, my mental health has improved, and I just feel better overall. This just wasn’t the right choice for me.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “If you are thinking about this pill Seasonique one word - DON'T I'm 45 with my tubes tied but have had bad cycles most of my life. I thought 4 cycles a yer YASSS GREAT now I am on day 17 and I a ridiculously sick at the stomach and still bleeding!”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on seasonique for less than a week and it almost finished me off due due to severe bleeding &amp; baseball sized clots.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “I just started this because I’ve been getting my period about twice a month. Hoping it will regulate. I started it the Sunday before last and I feel like I’m experiencing symptoms. I wasn’t expecting this at all, so hopefully it will work. If I get it now this will be twice In a month.”
		

For Endometriosis: “I was on the Seasonique pill for about a year. I would not consider myself someone with depression, but I do go through bouts of sadness like everyone. Seasonique caused me to become horribly, horribly depressed. I would lay in bed and stare at the wall for hours. I couldn't will myself to get up at all. I started having extremely bad suicidal ideations that I couldn't snap myself out of.

The final straw for me was during the off time of the pills where you get your period. I passed a blood clot the size of my fist. It was extremely painful and I almost passed out. I have never, ever experienced this before, and never experienced it again after I got off Seasonique.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “I’ve been taking seasonique for almost 2 months. I’d heard that it would allow me to skip periods which I desperately needed because my periods were so severe. Completely unbearable cramps, nausea, fatigue, heavy flow, etc. About 3 weeks ago I started having horrible cramps and bleeding and it has not stopped for one day since. I have literally been on my period for 3 weeks! I would have been better off not taking it at all. At least this pain would only last a week or so. I’ve also had some weight gain without changing my diet so I feel like it’s another side effect of this birth control. I had such high hopes for it but sadly, it kind of sucks.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “I started to take the Seasonique as directed and did not make it past 10 days. My period which normally lasted 5 days is still going on for 3 weeks!!! I stopped on day 10 because the bleeding was awful. The point to take was to have less period, not to bleed everyday. 3 days after taking it and I have never bled so heavy in all my 34 years of having a period. This stuff is awful!”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “Seasonique was great for 2 months and THEN on the 3rd month, I started to bleed heavily. Every time I stood up, I felt like I peed myself, every minute I had to change my pad/liner and then blood clots. It was just bad. Very uncomfortable. My period was light for the first week and then 2 more weeks, that’s when it got heavy, heavier than my regular period. So yes, maybe my body was transitioning but I honestly couldn’t stand it. I hate that uncomfortable feeling, especially at night, I was leak all the way down to my bum crack, (sorry). And I would get very hot at night. I am officially off BC, I’d rather get my period every month for 2-3 days, work out, have a good diet and drink water and know my body, rather than not knowing what is going to happen. Obviously everyone’s body is different, but the heavy periods ain’t it. Ain’t bout that life, like I said, I’d rather get a LIGHT period every month, rather than deal with a heavy one for WEEKS. Also. I had BAD cramps!”
		

For Polycystic Ovary Syndrome: “This birth control caused Focal nodular hyperplasia (FNH) in my liver. I know have 5 masses, that cause me discomfort and pain. after I had my last child I was on seasonique for about a year. I was healthy before that time. I had my gallbladder taken out and while in there they saw tumors. I was told it was most likely caused by this BC. Looking into joining a class action law suit.. DO NOT TAKE THIS MEDICATION! It is not worth it!”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “I took this med for about a week and a half.  The first few days, pleasantly, no side effects. Then I started having the worst insomnia, vivid nightmares, and a deep-bone back pain/body aches every night.

Fast forward to days 7-9, I still had all of the above, plus acne, panic attacks, racing thoughts, stomach cramps, diarrhea, depression, and hot flashes. At this point, I would rather have heavy, painful, periods! I am an attorney and cannot function like this.”
		

For Birth Control: “I had a great experience on this birth control. I had no weight gain, no hair loss, my skin was generally pretty clear, and the best part were the 4 periods a year. My hair also grew very fast, and was super long and shiny. Only con was that if I didn’t always take it at the same time every day, I would get breakthrough bleeding.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “so I started these new  pills Seasonique in Sept 2019. All went smoothly for the first 12 weeks, got my period at the end, it  wasn't too horrible like before either. Well, I started the 2nd 12 week pack and about 4-5 weeks in I started spotting, and have been since. About 6-7 weeks now and next week I'm due for my normal period. I'm going to give it a chance and maybe after my 'regular period' and starting the next pack it'll regulate again, but if this happens again I'M DONE!”
		

For Birth Control: “Amazing, I was basically out of commission for a 1.5 weeks a month with my period and now  on seasonique I only having 4 light and painless once a year. It is a game-changer and I no longer have PMS mood swings and have really helped my relationship!! I love this pill”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “Update time!! After 4 months of bleeding daily my period finally regulated and stopped ! I’m on my 2nd pack n half way through and have only had occasional cramps and spotting But not till recently. I started pill in sept and bled till late December. All of January was finally great and only now into Feb am I having light spotting and cramps but definitely not the bleeding and not the pad wearing that  I had for 4 months bleeding nightmare. If you hang in there it eventually does regulate n stop the period!! :)”
		

For Birth Control: “This is a follow up to my Oct 2019 review. Quitting today to save my marriage! Kidding. Sort of. I’ve basically been bleeding 3 months out of the 5 that I’ve been taking this pill. Totally defeated the purpose. Had no other side effects but the bleeding just won’t stop.”
		

For Birth Control: “I experienced many side effects within the first week. Vomitting,   nausea, upset stomach, breast tenderness and pain, and  dizziness. I decided to discontinue the medication.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on seasonique for about nine months I just started my 4th pack. I was originally on the shot but it made me extremely depressed after getting it once, so I took a 5 month break and started seasonique. I rarely have mood swings, I don’t get acne or headaches and haven’t gained any weight. This birth control was perfect for me, until I started bleeding for 3 months straight. I don’t bleed a lot I could pass by just wearing liners all day but it stops for maybe a week when I start a new pack and I start it again out of no where. If I didn’t bleed so constantly this would be the perfect birth control for me. When I am on my “period pills” I only bleed for about 4 days and get a little cramp here and there but it’s nothing compared to how they used to be. Debating if I should wait to finish my last pack or just try to get a new one.”
		

For Birth Control: “First day I noticed a lot of panic attacks. Thought I would just wait it out. Next couple of days felt more depressed. Also had trouble sleeping. Third night I was crying my eyes out and started feeling  really dark mood and depressed. Not worth it. Stopped and felt so much better.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “Have had a period with cramps since Sept 2019. started Seasonique to try to get rid of my abnormal bleeding, I had heavy periods, migraines, nausea and cramps prior to starting and weeks of spotting. Now I'm on my 46th pill of Seasonique and am STILL moderate bleeding must wear tampons or pads daily since Sept, and I have nausea,  upset bowels, and horrible cramps sometimes I can't even stand up. My doctor said to keep taking it and finish the pack and it will get better. WILL IT? I have not stopped bleeding for months and its so difficult to explain to a spouse why I feel sick and am STILL also bleeding.”
		

For Birth Control: “First day: 2 hours later I completely had a fast heart beat. I was really dizzy and felt like a lot of water weight on my body. I thought it was just my body adjusting so I continued to have hope for this pill. 

Day 2: Anxiety lessened but noticed I had extreme fast heartbeat when I am resting, like when I am on the bed. Trouble sleeping. Signs of depression. 

Day 3: Depressive and hard to sleep.  I was balling my eyes out in bed that night. 

Day 4: Depressive symptoms. Agitated. Woke up with a severe panic attack. 

Today: I quit. I rather have a heavier period then put up with depression from the pill.”
		

For Birth Control: “I felt like a zombie, lots of facial breakouts and nausea, throwing up every few mornings and throughout the day, foggy, lack of focus.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on Seasonique for almost three years and have not had any issues! I love only having my period 4 times a year. Additionally, I don’t experience heavy bleeding when I do get my period and my usual symptoms are so much less intense. Initially I did bleed for almost two weeks when I started the pack which was not fun but since my body regulated to it it has been great!”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on this pill for 4 years!! It was my first birth control I was ever on and I originally got on it because I didn’t want to have periods anymore. Not having periods was the ONLY good thing about this birth control. I constantly got yeast infections, ZERO sex drive, I was so dry down there, and constant nausea. I didn’t realize it was my birth control doing making me feel that way for 4 years until I came off of it.”
		

For Birth Control: “I like taking this pill because now I don’t have periods every month, I also am not moody all the time anymore! I do have some side effects like tenderness, headaches, and spotting also! But other than that I get to be more happy instead of miserable like I used to be, my first packet of pills didn’t work the first time! I had to talk to my doctor about it because I bleed a lot more than I should have, also my doctor had to give me a stronger dose of them! I started taking Seasonique so far it has been a great experience other than side effects, when I do have my period I am still moody I also feel a lot of pain! I know that at least I don’t have to have it every month anymore, I am so thankful my doctor helped me out!”
		
6.2
5.6
5.1
5.0
3.5
Ovarian Cysts
Birth Control
Endometriosis
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
Abnormal Uterine Bleeding
Summary of Seasonique reviews
5.1
