Trinessa
The TriNessa brand name has been discontinued in the U.S. If generic versions of this product have been approved by the FDA, there may be generic equivalents available.
Level 1 interactions:
alprazolam
clonazepam
Xanax (alprazolam)
Level 2 interactions:
levothyroxine
metformin
Synthroid (levothyroxine)
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “I’ve never written a review in my entire life. But, I feel super strong about my experience with this birth control and wanted to share. I was on and off this birth control for about two years. It helped me with my acne, I did gain about 20 pounds but it also was very effective. Everyone on here is talking about their experiences WHILE taking the pill but nothing about the after effects. While on the medication I had less cramping and regular cycles... well I’ve been off of it for a year and 4 months and since then I’ve had my period every 11 days. Every single time. Instead of my period lasting 7 days it lay 5-6. I’ve been to multiple doctors and they just tell me it may take a while or longer than normal for my body to readjust. On top of this, I can’t conceive. It’s very frustrating, trinessa seemed to be working great during my experience but I just want to share while you ladies on some of the side effects I’ve experienced since being off it.”
		

For Birth Control: “I LOVED this birth control and was taking it for multiple years!!! WHY did they stop making it, NO IDEA. Got switched to Tri-Sprintec and my boobs were extremely tender for WEEKS!!!”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on Ortho Tri-Cyclen for 10 years and loved it -- totally normal periods, no weight gain, all good. This month I had to switch to Ortho Tri-Cyclen generic called TriNessa because of the discontinuation of Orth Tricyclen and I feel like a crazy person. It's only been a week but I've cried most days and I feel like it's made my pre existing anxiety worse. I also have gained three pounds in the last week or so on it. 

Did this happen to anyone else on making the switch? Is this normal? They're supposed to be the same drug so I'm surprised my body is reacting so much.”
		

For Acne: “I had been taking Aubra Eq and stayed on it for five months and had the WORST acne flair ups. Mostly around my chin and jawline. I hated it! I heard TriNessa was approved to help with acne and within the first two weeks I noticed a significant calming of my skin! This is my fourth week and I’m still very happy! No acne and no side effects! I’m so glad I switched to TriNessa”
		

For Birth Control: “Been on Tri-Nessa for almost 3 years now, and in the beginning my mood swings and depression were all over the place. In the beginning, my periods were lighter and I was in less pain but it now it seems to have switched to more heavy periods and more painful currently. Yes, my skin is clearer but I’ve developed hyperpigmentation  (melasma) on my cheeks from using Tri-Nessa and the hormones.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on trinessa for a few months years ago and had a love/hate relationship with it. The pros were: clear skin, high sex drive, and very light periods which was a plus for me. My main reason for birth control was heavy periods due to possible endo. The cons: extreme weight gain, constant headaches. My obgyn determined with the weight gain and frequent headaches that the hormones in this pill were too high and triphasic pills seem to give me headaches more often than not. I did much better on a consistent dose of low hormones. My pill at this time was switched to microgestin 1/20. I lost all the water weight gain and once my body detoxed from triphasic, the headaches and migraines lessened.”
		

For Birth Control: “I switched from Ortho TriCyclen about 3 months ago to TriNessa when my health department was low on stock. All though so far proven effective in one aspect (no pregnancy or anything, and  I use it for protection), I also use for prevention of ovarian cysts which has proven INEFFECTIVE. I have constant, month long pain. Not only to top that I took Ortho for a year and within 3 months on TriNessa, I started at 105 lbs and gained 20! And no matter what I do the weight won't go away! I was wondering if any other ladies were having this problem and just about every review I've seen confirmed my suspicions. While it gets the job done (that is, pregnancy prevention), there are numerous other medications out there SO DO NOT TAKE THIS ONE.”
		

For Acne: “The pill TriNessa is an excellent temporary acne treatment, but not for mental health. Each time the months pass, the bad side effects are aggravated as: headache, change of mood, gum disease, hair loss, weight gain, vaginal infection and depression.”
		

For Birth Control: “I went on Tri-nessa about a year ago for multiple reasons such as: acne, heavy periods, and just being sexually active. I went to my regular physician and she prescribed me Tri-nessa. After about 3 weeks on this pill I started noticing changes, I was gaining weight which was strange for me as I stay around the same weight all the time, I was breaking it worse than before and it didn’t show any signs of lightening up, and my emotions were extremely hormonal I could be laughing one second and crying the next. Not to mention I felt as if I was going to throw up every morning. I thought maybe this was my body getting used to the hormones so I decided to give it more time. About two months in all of the symptoms were only getting worse. I had enough and got off of the pill. Within days my mood was back to normal and I was no longer nauseous. But my skin has never been the same, I break out worse than before now and I have hyperpigmentation which I never had before. Absolutely do not recommend.”
		

For Birth Control: “I took these pills for a year and I could notice the changes in my mood, I also was depressed, when I have always been a person that hardly cries until I started these pills. I cried for NOTHING even the stupidest thing. Also I was dry all the time. The only good thing about them was that all my acne went away and my skin looked fine. But I do not recommend them at all. Then I switched to microgestin 5 months ago but I am now reading the reviews and people complain about the same. So I am switching of pills again”
		

For Ovarian Cysts: “I took this stuff for 8 years. I have felt awful that long. I have thyroid problems and so I thought the symptoms were due to my thyroid. I was depressed, lethargic, it was as dry as the Sahara down there, and I could hardly get out of bed no matter how much I slept. I stopped taking it 3 weeks ago. I feel human again for
The first time in 8 years! Curse you Trinessa! I give you a negative one million. Don’t make yourself suffer as long as I did. Stop taking this poison!”
		

For Birth Control: “Overall, a decent and reliable birth control. It has reduced my periods to practically nothing except when on the placebo week. Very light bleeding, no cramping. The worst side effect I experience though, is migraines when I stop taking the active pills. Severe migraines that nothing seems to help. Frustrating, but not the worst side effect to deal with.”
		

For Birth Control: “I like it. TBH and I’m a very paranoid and pick person. I’ve been on it for 5 years and I rarely get cramps or much PMS. I didn’t gain weight. Didn’t lose hair. I’ve always had depression and anxiety sooooo I don’t genuinely see a difference in that. Only thing is I didn’t see much of a difference in my acne.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have never written a review for something in my life but I am hoping I will help someone so they do not go through what I went through. DO NOT TAKE THIS MEDICATION. EVER. I started taking Trinessa when my pharmacy ran out of my TriSprintec. I did not think anything of it and began taking the pill. However, with a couple days of taking the pills I was having severe depression, mood swings, then after a while I eventually gained 20+ pounds and I got acne which I have not had in over 5 years. DO NOT TAKE TRINESSA. I hope someone will read the reviews and not put themselves what I went through ....”
		

For Acne: “I’m 24 years old and I always had a little acne. Nothing I ever worried about. I started taking this med for BC method. This made my break outs horrible. I have taken this med for 4 months and do not think I am going to take month 5. I only made it 4 months because I thought my body was still adjusting. I have lost all of my confidence and find myself crying and hyperventilating in the car when I look at my face and the new acne I have. I am hoping when I stop this medication the acne will get better. This is not small pimples, we’re talking huge blood filled, cystic acne. I don’t wish this feeling upon anyone. I wouldn’t recommend. Good luck ladies.”
		

For Birth Control: “I opted for TriNessa like many others to clear up my hormonal acne and obviously to prevent pregnancy. At both it was successful. It took a month or so for my hormones to be balance and the acne to clear, but now that I’ve been off of it the acne is coming back. My periods became less painful, so that’s another plus. As for weight gain I suspect I gained weight at the onset of taking it, but I wasn’t weighing myself. I have just recently started to lose weight. So I can’t be sure if it was  the pill that caused me to gain weight or if I was just letting myself go or a combo of both. Anyways, there was also a definite vaginal dryness and major decrease in libido.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have always had acne on most my face but never extremely bad but this made my skin break out.  I read reviews that it did to many girls but I thought well it may be different for my combination skin/ acne. I was on it three months and that’s when my acne was at it’s all time worse and I didn’t even realize it was the pill. I got off it for a month (didn’t have money lol) the got on Mili and I’m on my 3rd month, still haven’t skipped a period as I’m trying and my mood swings are bad but light flow, still cramping, my acne looks a lot more clear though”
		

For Birth Control: “I took trinessa for about a year and I should have stopped way sooner. The side effects were bad, decreased libido, mood swings, depression, complete dryness in my vagina. 
It did clear up my skin but I would not recommend it to anyone.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was looking for a birth control after having my second child. After being put on this I noticed massive mood changes. Then after a month I found out I was pregnant again. 11 days after I found out I was pregnant I was in emergency surgery. I had an ectopic which my ob told me was caused by TriNessa. Never again will I touch this birth control, or any for that matter.”
		

For Birth Control: “After being on Mirena for 7 years (2 rounds) I had my IUD removed after developing severe acne and depression. My doctor prescribed Trinessa and I was hesitant to use it. I went birth control free for 2 months with little to no improvement to my acne. I was also using retin-A to help with it. I have now been on Trinessa for four months and I'm so impressed. I rarely break out and it clears up quickly. I still have scarring that's improving. I discontinued using the retin-A when I began using Trinessa. I gained about ten pounds but it's not noticeable and I actually feel more confident with my body now. My breasts did grow about one size as well. My mood also changed dramatically, I feel happier and more relaxed. The only negative I can say is the irregular periods. The first two months of use I had very long periods, like three weeks at a time. Now I just skip the "placebo week" and only get a bit of spotting 1-2 days. Overall very happy!”
		

For Birth Control: “I’m just now stopping the use of this drug. I’ll be starting Viorele probably next month and am hoping for better results. I started this drug 3 months ago after an ectopic. I have PCOS as well so I was also hoping that with the birth control help it would stop the abnormal bleeding and long periods. It did the opposite. I’ve bled longer on this drug than I have without any birth control. It used to happen once every few months now it’s a monthly issue. I’ve been super depressed and emotional while on this drug and very very angry and aggressive. Which is why I’ve stopped. I don’t like this feeling. If it happens with this new pill, I’ll go off of Birth control for good.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’m 18 and I decided it’s time to get back on birth control, because I am sexually active. I thought maybe I should try trinessa again, because when I was 15-16 I was taking this, I would forget to take the pill so, maybe that’s why I had problems (throwing up, hormonal)
This time round I haven’t missed any days so far, and I’m about a month in on taking it and so far I am super depressed. I am usually a super nice person, I have a good job, great friends and family and an amazing boyfriend. But, it seems like lately I feel worthless and I am having really dark thoughts. I feel so dark and trapped and it is terrible. I have been so awful to people surrounding me lately, including my boyfriend and I just hate how I feel. I have been hearing that I just need to try to stay on it for a few more months for my body to get use to it, but we will see how that goes. If this continues, I am going to get off this one and try a new one.”
		

For Acne: “Was prescribed trinessa for acne and mood swings.  Made my acne terrible worse than ever before and developed mood swings worse than ever. Didn’t help my severe cramps whatsoever. Didn’t gain weight (I think? I don’t weight myself). But overall made acne and mood swings worse”
		

For Birth Control: “I just started this pill about 3 weeks ago and am starting to have many negative symptoms now. I was on microgestin, had minor symptoms, so I switched to TriNessa which made me severely depressed within the first couple of days taking it. I started this pill and was not having these symptoms but have recently felt overly tired and depressed. I did not think it was possible to feel the emotional pain I was going through from Estarylla again but now that I am on TriNessa I am back where I was with Estarylla. I feel that I could cry any moment over anything and I overthink anything anyone does. Other than the depression, this pill has not shown any other bad symptoms, but I don’t know if I can handle this emotional stress anymore. I would not recommend starting this pill if you have anxiety already, as this had just made mine increasingly worse. I am hoping to stop this pill and am going to talk to my doctor over my uni break.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on Trinessa for about a month now. My acne isn’t as bad as it used to be but it’s made my period awful. My cramps are way way worse than they have ever been before.”
		
6.3
6.0
5.7
3.8
Acne
Birth Control
Abnormal Uterine Bleeding
Ovarian Cysts
Summary of TriNessa reviews
6.0
