Velivet
Velivet is a combination birth control pill containing female hormones that prevent ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary).  Velivet also causes changes in your cervical mucus and uterine lining, making it harder for sperm to reach the uterus and harder for a fertilized egg to attach to the uterus.
Level 1 interactions:
alprazolam
clonazepam
No level 2 interactions
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “I have been on this birth control pill Velivet for about two weeks and I can personally say that I’m quite upset. This is my third birth control. In the past two weeks I have experienced major cystic acne, depression, breast tenderness (the first week), and cramps while NOT on my period. I’m taking it in time daily but I’m going to stop taking this pill and I try another.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been taking the Velivet birth control for almost a year now and it’s been a terrible ride. My cramps are paralyzing (I had bad cramps before but these are worse) and they even happen when I’m not on period. The worst part has to be the constant emotional mood swings and change in sex drive. I do not cry normally but on this pill, I have full days where I cannot stop crying for no reason. My sex drive lowered significantly and it dries me out during sex even when I am in the mood which was never an issue before. I am easily irritable, overly sensitive and depressed when I’m on my period. I’ve tried to stick it out in hopes of it getting better but the side effects have actually enhanced overtime. I do not recommend it. Only positives are not getting pregnant and lighter periods but even the periods fluctuate.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was excited to try this birth control because after talking to my doctor this seemed like a much better match then when I was on nexplanon. Sadly I was only able to take this for the first week. This birth control gave me the WORST migraines of my life EVER. For a week straight I have been dizzy and my insomnia is so bad I haven’t slept for the past two nights. But the thing that pushed me to the breaking point is that it caused me hallucinations twice on the last day of taking it. And not to mention the miserable depression.”
		

For Birth Control: “This is my first time taking birth control. I am 26 year old and when I reached the 2nd week of taking velivet, I started to experience anxious, anxiety, vein being visible on my breast, sometimes high blood pressure and I freaked out. I asked my PCP and pharmacist the side effect of this pill. They told me it's not normal for my veins to be too visible and it's not the pill. I went to ER because I was having throbbing feeling on my breast and they told me that it's normal because that's the hormones reacting because of that pill. Now I'm very confused. I was fine and now I'm a wreck.  I am not taking these !”
		

For Birth Control: “I haven't been on this pill for over a month only a few weeks &amp; I have really lost my appetite, I haven't eaten in 3days . My breast are very much tender . I feel horrible everyday I have been throwing up my mom thought I was coming down with the flu or something. I will not be continuing this birth control or any birth control for that matter .”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on Velivet for a few years now to regulate my period. For the first year and a half I was fine, but then I switched packs with a friend for a week because we were on vacation and I forgot mine at home. When I restarted on Velivet it was awful. I threw up all the time and could barely keep anything, even water, down. I stopped taking them for a month because it got so bad, but I recently restarted due to a bad period. I’m feeling nauseous 24/7 and I have to throw up before I sleep because the nausea is causing insomnia. The only good thing I can say about this is that it cleared my skin, but trust me it’s just not worth it.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on this birth control for almost 2 years now. During my first year taking it, it worked well. Did it’s job (no kids), sex drive was fine, mood was good, I still experienced cramps during my period, nothing too hard. Then, I switched doctors and wasn’t able to get any refills for 2 whole months, so I wasn’t on birth control. After that, I went on Velivet again and omg everything changed for the worst! I’m very emotional (sad and moody), experience bloating randomly, and I get very painful cramps randomly throughout the day even when I’m not on my period. During my period, the cramps are way worse! My period is also heavier. I honestly can't wait to switch to a different birth control pill. I’m not sure why there was such a drastic change after going off of Velivet for 2 months. I thought maybe my body was adjusting to the pill again, so I decided to give it a few more months. But it’s now been 6 months and I’m still experiencing the same symptoms.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on velivet for about half of a year, have actually experienced less mood swings, fewer cramps, and I'm overall happier and seem healthier. I don't know if it has made me lose weight but I'm down 5lbs from before, but that might not be a side effect.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on Velivet for 12 years and have never had a single issue.  My periods are lighter and extremely regular.  So specific that I know the exact day and time of day I'll start. There's always a trial period when taking a new medicine so definitely get this medicine the full 3 month try.”
		

For Birth Control: “Velivet did its job (no children) but the side effects were godawful. First off, it made my period REEK. You could smell the blood through jeans, which is not something I experienced before birth control, and not something I’m dealing with now that I’ve switched pills. I also would have these intense freak-outs, to the point where my loved ones were afraid to tell me things because of how I’d react. And one day once a month, a couple days before my period would start, I would suffer paralyzing self consciousness. I couldn’t even look in a mirror to brush my teeth; if I saw myself I’d break down, seeing myself as some hideous beast. It caused me to miss classes and cancel plans.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been taking Velivet for about a year now because I started to have periods that lasted all month which resulted in anemia. My only complaint is that the cramps are quite bad, but it's done its job for me, so I can't complain!”
		

For Birth Control: “This was my first birth control brand so I don't have experience with other brands to compare it to, but I had some issues. I had heavy, two week long periods on this pill, sometimes even longer. Thinking this would eventually level off I stayed on it for a year but it never did. Needless to say, I've had more than enough of that! Also, on this pill I felt paranoid about things that I never worried about before, I kept thinking something awful would happen whenever I left the house. I just switched bands so I'm hoping these symptoms stop, especially the paranoia and anxiety. On the plus, my skin never looked better and while the periods were long, I had  minimal cramping.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been in Velivet for about 2 years now because of painful, heavy and irregular periods.  I've tried others that were too strong. This one has worked until the last month.  I've noticed that my cramping has came back and it has taken my sex drive away completely!  Which is NOT good”
		

For Birth Control: “The worst experience ever. Deep depression and I've never had issues with depression in my life. 
I was seriously a mess.”
		

For Birth Control: “This birth control has been a savior for me. After trying two different birth controls (Alesse and NuvaRing), I was losing hope that there was a good bcp out there. But velivet has been great! I didn't gain any weight, I don't feel any moodier, my acne has cleared up, my periods are lighter. Only complaint (which isn't really one, it's subjective) is that my sex drive is a lot more.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was a bit on the edge to start taking this pill, because of how poorly it was reviewed. I'm now a couple months in, and I have no complaints. My mood has stayed as positive as before, and I have had depression before but no signs of that came back. My sex drive was pretty high before, and is now the same, or even more now that I don't have to worry about getting pregnant.  I haven't gained any bloatingness, or gained weight, but that could be because I exercise, and have a minimal decreased appetite since I've been on the pill. My acne has been clearing up as well. The only weight gain I have noticed is that my breasts grew a whole cup size. Nothing but positive effects from velvivet!”
		

For Birth Control: “After trying four other types with horrible side effects, Velivet was a welcome improvement. First month was a bit moody and had spotting but after that my very irregular period (weeks off) became regular almost to the hour. I did not gain weight and have minimal decreased appetite. Doesn't seem to have a strong effect on my sex drive either way. Almost entirely cleared up my acne outside of a touch right before I get my period. Horrible cramps that would me bed ridden are mostly gone. Just have moderate cramps for 24 hours after first getting my period. Period only lasts 3-4 days now compared to 5-7 before.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on this pill for 2 months. I don't have cramps anymore. Thank goodness! My appetite is smaller. Breasts have stayed the same size and thats fine by me. My period is now 6-7 days (used to be 3-4 days when I wasn't on birth control). No babies though. I do notice that I get more headaches. Im not sure if its from the pill because I've been more active and the sun in FL is strong.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on this birth control for about six months now and it's by far the best one I've ever taken. It definitely does the job, no babies and lighter periods, the first month was hard, depressed and low sex drive but those symptoms have gone now. I started the pack on the first day after my period, it has completely cleared up any acne, my boobs have gone up a size and I feel I've lost some weight due to a lack of appetite. I think if u can get through the first month without any serious problems this medication should work out fine for u. My only issue I would say is some months my period is a few days off.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on this product for years so I dont know if the effects are from the pill or just me personally. It does the job; regular, lighter periods and no babies. But I never want to have sex. I thought something was wrong with until I lost my script. Also about 48 hours of PMS but that's it.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on three different kinds of birth control. I used this one twice in the past and had horrible experiences. This pill gave me awful depression from the first day of use (both instances). I could only stay on it three weeks the first try, and one night the second. If you are someone with depression, anxiety, bipolar disorder or similar, I would suggest strongly against taking this oral contraceptive. It gave me suicidal thoughts that followed into my dreams. Traumatizing experience. If I could rate it lower, I would.”
		

For Birth Control: “I am 25 have tried about 5 different types birth control pills. I was on Velivet for about 8 months. I know every one is different but for the last 3-4 months I was on it I was getting 2 full periods per month instead of 1/month. Another down fall was it completely shutdown my sex drive which is fine if you are single and looking to stay out of trouble. The pros of this pill are: kept my acne away and it kept my mood stable no crying or moodiness. Before this pill I was on Sryonx and it turned me into a crying machine. I am now switching to Reclipsen hopefully  it helps with reducing my periods to once a month. In conclusion it was not a good enough pill to make me want to stay on it.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have used this pill for the last month, and I just started on my second month. I want to say that I started this pill not on the first day of my period, the reason why I wanted to go on the pill was because my period was irregular. I've lost a total of 10 lbs since starting this pill, and I've noticed that my appetite is a lot smaller now than it was before. I've tried other birth control pills and those always made me eat like a monster, but with this pill, I feel a lot better. The first month is pretty brutal. I had a fever the day after I first started the pill, and then I felt sick with stomach pains for the first couple of weeks, but after the first month, I'm feeling a lot better. Note that everyone's body works differently.”
		

For Birth Control: “Today marks a month and a week since I've been on this pill.  I was on it before and had no problems so when I found out I had ovarian cysts my dr. Put me back on it.  My periods have been not as painful and I'm pretty sure my cysts are gone. (Although I haven't had another ultrasound) but I have been nauseous every single damn day.  My breasts hurt and I always feel sick.  I'm not sure the side effects outweigh the benefits.  I'll give it a couple more weeks to let my body adjust to the hormones and update,  but this is awful.”
		

For Birth Control: “I tried Tri-Nessa for one whole month and it did nothing for me. I still bled like crazy and it was just horrible. I went to my doctor after the trial period with Tri-Nessa was up and let her know I wasn't satisfied SO she changed me to Velivet. I kid you not after 2 days my unstoppable hemorrhaging stopped!! After 6 months of constant blood &amp; discomfort this pill stopped it. The 1st month that I was on my period after the Velivet was very painful. There was constant lower abdominal and lower back pain. I endured it and I've been loving it ever since. For me it does the opposite I have a regular libido sometimes a bit high lol. I've noticed that I'm more emotional and the week before my period I do get grouchy but overall I'm so thankful.”
		
5.3
Birth Control
