Yasmin
Yasmin (drospirenone and ethinyl estradiol) is a combination birth control pill containing female hormones that prevent ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary).
Level 1 interactions:
amitriptyline
clonazepam
Xanax (alprazolam)
Level 2 interactions:
ibuprofen
Lamictal (lamotrigine)
levothyroxine
metformin
Synthroid (levothyroxine)
Topamax (topiramate)
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “I’m a runner and have no history for blood clots. I started using Yasmin mid September of 2020 and November 21st I went on a run and passed out. The first hospital visit they told me I just had SVT and was sent back home. My heart rate stayed at 120 and I felt like absolute garbage I couldn’t even walk two steps without feeling like I couldn’t breathe and was about to pass out again. I went back to the ER on the 23rd, they did some tests and I came back with an abnormal test for pulmonary embolism. I got a CT and they told me I had a large clot above my heart and going into my lungs, called a saddle pulmonary embolism. I was sent to  ICU and spent 5 total days at the hospital. They told me it was the largest PE they had ever seen in a person of my age I'm a late teenager). If I hadn’t gone in when I did they told me I could’ve gone into cardiac arrest. I’m not saying this is something that is going to happen to everyone but I want to share my story.”
		

For Acne: “I’m on my 3rd month of Yasmin. I can't tell if it’s working or not. For the first week of every month my skin clears and then I’ll break out for the rest of it. Maybe the hormones haven’t stabilised yet so I’m going to stay on it for 6 months. No other side effects except I have had 2 migraines.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been taking a generic version of Yasmin for the past 4 months (almost 5). I've had issues with breakthrough bleeding before and Yasmin resolved that issue completely on the 2nd month. However, starting towards the end of month 2, I noticed that my hair has lost a lot of volume and I have bald spots in areas that were once full of growth (I have naturally thick curly hair that grows quickly). I've also heard of a lot of people losing an incredible amount of hair once going off Yasmin but for those people Yasmin was helpful in promoting hair growth.”
		

For Birth Control: “When I was a teenager I had two really bad stages of acne, so much that one time I had to go on accutane. I used another pill but it made me have a few pimples here and there. I decided yasmin since I didn't want acne problems. I was on it for 1.5 years with no issues at all until I got this throbbing leg pain that could best be described as what felt like growing pains. They hurt so bad it would wake me up in the middle of the night and I could barely walk. Went to the doctor and got an ultrasound, found out Yasmin gave me a DVT (blood clot) in my leg. Have been on blood thinners and am now switching to an IUD since it is the only option for me personally. 
Overall okay experience but the clot was terrible.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was taking LoLo and I had almost no side effects but since I needed more birth control and I am in a different country, I took Yasmin because they didn’t have LoLo here. It’s literally my 3rd pill on Yasmin and these side effects are horrible! I feel so tired, I feel sick, nauseous, like I can eat. Then the next day super tired. I also felt my heart racing and a lot of anxiety. And lastly my vision started getting worse. I have an astigmatism but I feel like birth control makes it worse and also as if I am not fully able to be in the present. Just horrible. The dose on this is way too high for me. And I don’t like how there is no option for placebo pills. Even the pamphlet is not very clear on how to take the pill correctly.”
		

For Birth Control: “My doctor prescribed Yasmin (later Yasmin plus) 3 years ago for severe dysmenorrhea and for the first time in my life, I had mild and regulated periods. But a few months in, it all went downhill. Headaches, low energy levels, intense weight gain, cupsize increase, hair loss and pretty much chronic bloating and constipation. Also started losing interest in daily activities, was short tempered, developed severe anxiety borderline depression. I consulted both a psychiatrist and a psychologist. I was placed on Fluoxetine (antidepressants) for over a year. It's been a month since I quit Yasmin (I'm also off Fluoxetine) and my mental health has improved. I have swollen legs now and my body feels weird. Hoping to get back to normal soon. I'm yet to see my periods post the pill and I'm working so hard to get rid of this weight.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’m almost 35 and I have been on several different birth controls since I was 16. Yaz was my favorite but I recently switched to Yasmin. I worried my skin would break out because the FDA didn’t approve Yasmin for acne like Yaz is. My skin has continued to stay clear and I personally haven’t had any issues with Yasmin.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been on Yasmin for about 5 years because I experienced horrible cramps due to cysts. At first, I gained weight but then after I lost it. My cramp pain decreased and it regulated my period. I didn't experience acne but I did have constant breast tenderness. After so many years of taking it, I stopped because I was experiencing bad headaches. Now I'm currently looking for different birth control.”
		

For Birth Control: “I started taking the Yasmin pill two months ago because I saw how clear my friends skin got and because I had problems with acne but it wasn’t that severe. Within the first week of intake my mom could already see the difference in my skin and I got compliments from people which really did make me happy, until the 7 day break it was torturous endless anxiety, depression, confusion, mood swings I just wasn’t great company and it did have an effect on my mental health. The worst part is that you need help but from where will it come from because your mind is a war zone. Pretty hurts.”
		

For Acne: “I’ve been on the Yasmin pill for exactly 3 months now, before I started it I was self conscious about my skin and I have horrific period cramps so I decided to go on this pill. The first week or so my skin was pretty clear and I originally thought my skin was going to stay like this ... it didn’t. In month 2 and 3 my skin blew up getting huge under the skin spots that were painful and took ages to go away, I realised that I cried almost everyday about it but I convinced myself that it was going to get better as my doctor said it would take 3 months to get better. However, my skin looks 10X worse that it has ever looked before and my period cramps haven’t changed in anyway. I’m not sure what to do going forward because my skin is so scarred and damaged from all the huge spots I’ve been getting, someone help!!!”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on this pill for around a year and I can’t believe I put up with it for that long. My appetite would change constantly. Sometimes I would eat everything and sometimes I couldn’t eat without feeling nauseous. I’ve tried this pill and tricyclen, this one made me gain so much more weight. I was on both for a round a year. Finally the MOOD SWINGS. I would cry every single day for NO REASON. Even if something inconvenient happened, I’d start crying. And I felt like I couldn’t control it. Out of no where, the tears would start falling. It made everyone around me annoyed. It helped my acne for a bit, but then I started getting a few pimples again after a while. I do not recommend this one ! :(”
		

For Birth Control: “This was my last resort to try to fix my PCOS. I asked my doctor, and she said Yasmin might work. It did, for a little. I had my first period in over 18 months! Which was great because I want to settle down. However, over the last 10 months I have gained over 40 pounds, and I can NOT get rid of it. I am sleepy all the time, I am water bloated CONSISTENTLY. I only had my period one time in that 10 months. This was horrible, and I am going to go back to my old BC.”
		

For Acne: “I had to be prescribed Yasmin because I was being treated with accutane for severe acne - and you are not allowed to get pregnant. I have been on it since I was 15 (I'm now 21), and overall I have had no problems with it apart from when I first started taking it I had a month long period. It regulated my periods, didn't effect my hair/weight, and I didn't find it had any impact on my mental health (although this may partly be because I was so happy my acne cleared up). I stopped taking it when I was 18 to give myself a break but I found my skin got really bad again, so I panicked and went straight back onto it and it cleared up after a month or so (but I had another month long period). I also find if I miss just one pill I come on my period.”
		

For Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder: “This pill really does get a hard time! After reading all these reviews I completely understand people will have differing reactions to taking it.... but WOW Yasmin has been a game changer for me. I suffered with severe PMDD up to 9 days before my period and would completely change as a person, irrational, crying and starting arguments, incredibly sensitive and paranoid .... this lasted until my period came and then I would have another 2 weeks of feeling great until the build up started again. This pill along with taking 10mg of Citalopram daily has literally changed my life. I suffered for years and years with PMDD and finally live a normal life now, still get a little scratchy a couple of days before period with a little increase in how hungry I am .... but that is it! Best thing I ever did! :)”
		

For Birth Control: “I regret ever taking this.

Took it for 7 year. Everything was great while on it, but I lost about 40% of my hair volume (telogen effluvium) and had severe cystic acne for 6 months after it. On top of that it messed with my humour. I felt angry and sad for months. 

It's now 1.5 years since I stopped it and even though the condition has improved I still have a long way to. I had to cut my hair short and I'm trying to fix the and scarring of the acne.”
		

For Birth Control: “My doctor recommended this birth control to regulate my period. I was on this for about 3 months, I gained 10+ pounds from this birth control, and cried nearly everyday about the smallest things. I was so emotional and depressed. I have taken about 5 other birth controls in the past and they have never given me any side effects like this. I strongly do not recommend.”
		

For Acne: “Started this pill about 8 months ago in a bid to clear up my persistent hormonal acne breakouts. From reading reviews I was super hopeful this may be the solution after feeling as if I’ve tried every other option (antibiotics, various creams, facials and diets) aside accutane. Hormonal breakouts is something I’ve been experiencing since I was about 16 (now 23). Sadly this hasn’t helped me. I have noticed no change in my skin since pre taking the pill my skin has consistently broken out throughout which I expected initially but now 8 months in I’m breaking out as bad as ever. Although I experienced no acne change I’ve had no other side effects. However I now worry coming off this pill is going to send my acne crazy as I know transition from the pill off is a huge trigger so now feel pretty stuck! Don’t think this is the magic solution all us acne  suffers hope for sadly.”
		

For Birth Control: “I am in recovery for an eating disorder( binge purge Anorexia) and decided get prescribe “Yasmin” After researching that is does not cause hair loss or weight gain( two very important things to me in recovery). I read many reviews and ignored them thinking that as long as the stated above side effects didn’t happen I would be happy. Not only has my mental health decline ENORMOUSLY, but I have also experienced a huge increase in my appetite, and with that the gaining of 4 pounds over a mere 4 weeks, this has been extremely distressing, I cannot warn you enough, Nothing can make you gain weight but the food you put in your mouth, but it did create a sense of “lack of control” around  food that I had spent months moving away from, it has made me feel CRAZY, and not myself, please listen to the long list of users that have had a awful experience and find a different one. Don’t do it to yourself and that find another one, hope this helps someone.”
		

For Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder: “I took this medication Yasmin in order to regularise my periods and avoid PMS symptoms of mood swings. However this pill worsened my situation. I have been suffering form immense depression and anxiety ever since. Anxiety with fast heartbeats. I've been possessive and anything around me would trigger emotional outbursts of crying and anger. I have cried every single day I took this pill.  if you've got pre-exisiting anxiety or depression , I would advise you don't take this pill. It will literally ruin your life. I have got 4 days left for the pill. Never taking it again after that .”
		

For Birth Control: “So I was on microgynon for about 4 years. At first was totally fine then somehow had put on nearly 3 stone, lost who I was, depressed and anxious. So I come off the pill for an operation and stay off, had a pregnancy scare and don’t feel comfortable with other contraceptions that stop your period due to my PCOS. My mum was on Yasmin for 20+ years and was fine with her.
 I asked years ago but they wouldn’t give me it because it’s usually for those who have acne but I explained my microgynon experience and the 3rd doctor I asked finally gave it me. First 3 months were difficult I got small acne on patches of my face (never had acne EVER even during teen years) and felt sick often. On my 4th pack acne disappears, no weight gain or difference in moods (might cry a bit more easily but I am taking a hormone). For now I’m happy and I’m monitoring weight and moods, honestly I’d try whatever pill your family has taken at least once because it could end up working better for you!”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on this Yasmin pill for a few months now and I have to say I’m really happy with it! I am a bit more emotional and sad but that comes with any pill really. I’ve gone through about 3 pills and found this one is the best. I have shorter and lighter periods and no cramps which is amazing. My skin is clear and my boobs have grown also. I do recommend this but keep in mind every pill has different effects for everyone:)”
		

For Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder: “I was reluctant to try a birth control for PMDD. I wasn't too confident it would help, and was concerned it would make me worse or something. However, after 2 months of being on Yasmin, I noticed GREAT improvement!! The first month I might have noticed about 25% improvement, but still had depression (which can get really bad 1 week prior to period). Second month, I noticed about a 70% improvement in PMS symptoms. Third month I noticed an additional improvement. I still get moody, but not severely depressed . This BC truly has helped me so so much. I just want to write my experience so others with PMDD can have hope.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was taking this pill for 2 years, during this time my long waist length hair started to fall out very gradually, after about a year my thick hair had become thin and had all broken off to neck length. My doctor was adamant that this pill was not causing my problem and sent me for blood tests to see whether I had some sort of deficiency. These all came back normal. I made the decision to come off the Yasmin pill last year. My hair has only just started to grow back - this is after a year of not taking the pill. I am absolutely certain after reading other Women’s reviews on here that Yasmin caused my hair to fall out. Please please consider what you are doing when taking this pill. I took this pill like many because it is marketed as the only pill that doesn’t make you gain weight. Putting on a little weight wouldn’t have hit my mental health as hard as losing all of my hair has.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on this pill for more than a decade. No issues. Slight nausea and a mild yeast infection when starting it, but those went away after the first few weeks, and after that I had 10 years of light periods, clear skin, nice hair, and stable mood. Sex drive was slightly reduced, but not enough to cause problems. I went off Yasmin for a few years to try the Paragard and honestly it’s been frustrating. Sex isn’t as much fun because I’m bleeding or PMSing for three quarters of the month, plus my periods, while not medically problematic, are annoyingly irregular - and they come with seven days of insomnia. 

Being on the pill put a stop to that for me. Yes, there have been a few benefits of being off it, but on balance, my natural hormones are not the magical fairy tale I keep seeing touted on the internet. I’m not saying everyone should take Yasmin, but if you’re thinking about taking it and are anxious about side effects, know that for some of us it ends up being fine.”
		

For Birth Control: “Highly do not recommend Yasmin. Advantages - no pregnancy, lighter periods disadvantages- weight gain, bigger breasts, no sex drive, decrease in hair quality. Within first three months already had a UTI and Yeast infection which I’ve never had before in the past. Overall bad for me, I started being way more anxious and stressed out, felt like it was way more difficult to be happy at all. Do not recommend at all!! Feel so stupid as I didn’t link any of my symptoms till now even though I only started having these issues after the pill.”
		
6.8
6.6
4.7
Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder
Acne
Birth Control
Summary of Yasmin reviews
5.5
