Yaz
Yaz tablets contain a combination of progesterone (drospirenone) and estrogen (ethinyl estradiol). Yaz is a combination birth control pill containing female hormones that prevent ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary). Yaz also causes changes in your cervical mucus and uterine lining, making it harder for sperm to reach the uterus and harder for a fertilized egg to attach to the uterus.
Level 1 interactions:
clonazepam
Xanax (alprazolam)
Level 2 interactions:
Lamictal (lamotrigine)
metformin
Synthroid (levothyroxine)
Topamax (topiramate)
No level 3 interactions

For Acne: “I’m in the middle of my fourth Yaz pack right now and I wish I was seeing the acne clearing effects more. Most sources say by 2-3 months you should start seeing your skin improve and by month 6 you should really see them so I’m not gonna quit it yet. I still wanna see if it will help my acne. The first month I had my period for a month straight, it was light but I still had cramps and stuff so that wasn’t fun. My boobs got bigger, biggest during the 2-3rd month and then they’ve gone down slightly so far through the 4th month. Other than that no weight gain. I have been more depressed and emotional lately so that’s kinda a bummer but my skins been slightly better. Some redness has gone away and I definitely get fewer pimples but I still get some, hopefully it will be better by month 6 and on. So far it’s just not good not bad just eh”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on this pill for 5 years now (I’m 19). Never experienced any change in my mood or emotions. It cleared up the small amount of acne that I had and it did not make me gain weight. The only bad side effect I have noticed is that my hair has become thinner (that could be caused by something else but I can’t think of anything else). Over all I like it but this is the only pill I have tried.”
		

For Birth Control: “This is month 2 of Yaz. 1 year ago I was on Yaz for 9 months roughly and I had experienced heavy breakthrough bleeding, very painful cramps, and at one point it got so bad I felt I had miscarried. I hadn't but the blood was pouring out of me in gushes. Far worse than my regular heavy period. After a while it levelled out and I stopped getting my period even on my "off" days. My blood tests were normal and so was my ultrasound. After a while I went off them to try and get pregnant but never did. Periods came back the same as before and decided to try Yaz again. So back to month 2 now of yaz and I'm still on my period. I has not stopped since before I went on Yaz. (Total 4 months on period) painful cramping has started again I'm exhausted all the time, moody, in pain and I'm going to talk to my doctor about switching BC. Cannot keep living like this esp since my bleeding wont stop. Horrible pain makes me want to cry and sleep all day. 1/10 stay away from yaz”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on Yaz for about 8 months, it works perfectly but about one day a month, it gives me manic depression and I’m emotional for no reason. I figured I could take one bad day a month but it has gotten severely worse and gives me suicidal thoughts. I’ve never ever experienced any form of depression before. I’m actually happy in my life but this makes me feel so low.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have just completed my first month on Yaz and may update my review. I was a bit annoyed when my doctor prescribed Yaz to me because "that's what she prescribes to all her PCOS patients" - but I don't struggle with the typical PCOS problems like excess hair and acne, and I was worried about the potential side effects. In summary, it's only been a month, but I can't say that I have observed any definite side effects - my emotions, acne, etc, are all within the normal range of what I would expect for my current circumstances. Re: libido, while I might be a bit drier, I was using condoms before and not having to use those more than makes up for it. One thing I did notice was that during the first couple of weeks I was waking up at around 2 AM feeling slightly off and struggling to get to sleep, but that seems to have gone away. As far as the positive effects, I haven't noticed any difference; acne is slightly worse than average but within the range of normal, no difference in body hair.”
		

For Acne: “The worst pill ever, it made me breakout so bad. My skin used to be perfect, if I knew what it was going to do to me after I would have NEVER taken it. A whole year later and I’m still suffering with more acne than I’ve ever had before.”
		

For Acne: “I’ve been on Yaz for almost 2 months now. I was hoping it would clear my skin up and help me with my cystic acne, but I’m not sure. I usually get pimples 2 weeks before my period, so obviously I broke out the 2 weeks before hand. But before that I felt like my skin was getting a little better. I definitely am still getting break outs tho. I’m getting my period tomorrow and I got a few more pimples coming in, as well as this one pimple on my chin that will NOT go away. I haven’t noticed any weight gain, or depression, but my boobs definitely got bigger lol. I’m gonna do another update after month 3. I hope it will finally kick in but I guess we will see:/”
		

For Birth Control: “Decided to try Yaz after having bad side effects on Levlen, I have been on this pill not even a month and my mood swings are absolutely insane. I have very intrusive thoughts and I go from happy to sad to furious with absolutely no cause. I’m at the end of my pack now and I have stopped it completely. Safe to say I’m staying off contraceptive pills as the side effects just aren’t worth it. Not only that, it’s $93 for a pack of 3, no thanks!”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on Yaz for a about three years now. I've been on the pill for 12 years. At first it agreed to my body but then I realized that he caused awful anxiety and mild depression. Every single day I am low and when I on the placebo pills I feel so happy. I feel like myself. I don't feel like I am being controlled by a medication. As soon as I start taking the pill again I feel down and anxious. I still ovulate on this pill and I have still gotten endometriosis and burst cysts on it. It helped my skin but it causes more damage elsewhere. I am planning to get off of the pill once and for all.”
		

For Acne: “I was prescribed Yaz a month ago due to a hormonal imbalance, cystic acne, and water weight. I just finished my first pack and wanted to share with all of you. I have lost some water weight and my mood/hormones have levelled so much! Before I was around an 8 around pms but I haven’t felt above a 3 in weeks. This acne however is horrible. It has completely wrecked my skin. Everyday I have new cystic bumps along my cheeks and jawline. My doc wants me to give it a full 3 months, but I seriously don’t know if I can continue with my face like this. I’m 30, not 15. I have been using bp and been prescribed retin-a to help. I am
Beyond embarrassed by it, so hopefully it gets better. Before yaz I would get maybe a handful
Of cystic acne around my period, but I have a new bump everyday since I started”
		

For Birth Control: “My experience on the pill is bladder pain and stomach aches really bad when I eat meals but when I eat snacks it isn’t that bad. Try it for yourself  it has caused me anxiety problems”
		

For Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder: “I suffered with severe PMDD for a few years and felt completely hopeless during my mood swings. No motivation and just completely lost. I started Yaz almost 5 months ago (along with Prozac) and will never go back. I was skeptical/nervous at first because of all the mixed reviews, but was willing to try anything to get my life back. I did have some nausea and diarrhea in the beginning but it just lasted a few weeks.”
		

  “I haven't been on yaz all that long it is for PCOS/birth control. I took it with accutane when I was 14 and don't remember any issues. I'm 25 and taking it again, and honestly I love it. I was on Blisovi for several years and I saw a different gyno who put me on Yaz for PCOS symptoms. 

I have noticed a considerable amount of breast tenderness that I've never really experienced before but it's honestly a small price to pay for a great birth control. 
My acne has decreased tremendously which has been the greatest benefit, I haven't been on it long enough to notice a decrease in my facial hair growth, I didn't gain weight, I didn't have a mood change, I don't have headaches, I don't have any negative symptoms other than breast tenderness. 
BIGGEST downside is it's a little expensive for me but its worth it.”
		

For Birth Control: “I live in Korea, and had to switch from my ortho-tri-cyclin in the US to YAZ here in Korea. I went to a doctor to talk about it and she suggested YAZ as it was fairly close to what I had been taking in the states. I got it for 6 months, and now that I'm nearing the end, I am thinking more seriously about finding something else. 

The biggest side effect for me is the decrease in my libido. I went from desiring intimacy with my fiancé almost every day to never, within a month of starting YAZ. It was an extreme loss of sexual desire that I am 100% sure was due to YAZ. I also gained a few pounds and have not been able lose it. I did start to notice more extreme mood shifts towards the end of each cycle as well. Feeling depressed, fatigue, and anxiety every 4 weeks is tough on me.

I am nervous about switching to something else because I have only ever taken ortho-tri-cyclin pills, but YAZ is just not for me in the long run.”
		

For Acne: “I have been on Yaz for a little over a year. I previously had the IUD but it started making me breakout on my chest so I took it out. The dermatologist told me to get on the pill because it is more balanced, so I did. Although it cleared up my chest and the acne on my face is a little better, I am still breaking out. I’ve always had a little acne growing up but I feel like this might not be normal so I am getting off Yaz.”
		

For Acne: “I only took YAZ for 1 month and 1 week and had to stop due to an explosion of pimples on my cheeks and jaw line that I never had before along with severe pelvic and leg pain and severe depression. My hair was also falling out like crazy. I am now 1 week without birth control and my mood has increased substantially and all of the side effects went away. YAZ also made me get a yeast infection on my FACE resulting in my breaking out in red bumpy itchy burning hives all over my face making the acne look worse than it actually was. I am now on steroids for the infection along with an antibiotic for the acne (BACTRIM) which I have taken before and waiting for these to kick in as I’ve only been on them for a week. Moral of the story YAZ wrecked my face.”
		

For Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder: “I started Yaz a month and a half ago and the first month was great I almost thought this will be it but suddenly my head started to fog and I will be unfocused and tired everyday for no reason. Other than that the constant cramps, back pain and decrease in my libido made me realize this was not good for me. I had high expectations that weren't fufilled I wish for new users to find this helpful.”
		

For Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder: “I have suffered extreme PMS all my life but didn’t know what it was. When I was in my late teens I was on Yaz for polycystic ovaries and then one day the doctor said we don’t prescribe that pill anymore and gave me microgynon well that was it years of feeling crazy and depressed. I had lots of failed relationships I was bat crazy. I eventually got a new doctor who gave me Yaz again and things changed. I fell pregnant twice on Yaz and have two beautiful boys after that they refused to give it to me so roll on another 10 years of trying everything. My husband even had the snip so I didn’t have to take anything. I was watching the TV  a year and a half ago and they were talking about PMDD as a disorder and I said OMG that is me. Lots of research and I eventually got Yaz again. Didn’t want to give it as I was obese and over 35 but begged. Yes I get sore heavy breasts, but for the first time in 10 years I’ve lost weight, I feel happy and my life is completely normal.”
		

For Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder: “So I've been on yaz for over 2 years now for acne, PDD and birth control! The first year, I took about 5 months to fully transition onto. I was taking it because I had bad acne and and the pain with my periods were crazy! I briefly stopped Yaz after a year, as I started having a bit of spotting in the middle of my packs, so I tried Yasmin for a couple month which I absolutely did not suit me! My breasts hurt so bad, even when I was just walking. I went back on Yaz just over a year ago and I've never been happier. I feel normal I feel like everything is under control. My gynaecologist advised me maybe my body just needed a break for it to come back and continue to be effective. As of now, I have a period every 2-3 months, as I "skip" my periods as my gynaecologist advised and my skin has been amazing, the pain is hardly there and I've never been happier. Everyone's bodies different, Everyone has different level of progesterone and estrogen in their body so every pill will effect everybody different. Find what's right for you!”
		

For Acne: “Just started my 4th month on Yaz. Zero side effects and my period and regular, shorter, and lighter, which I really like. My weight has stayed the same, which I’m also happy with. The main reason I went on Yaz to help my acne and I am still seeing no results in the 4th month. My skin is super clogged, greasy, and filled with pimples. I’ll probably switch if it doesn’t make a difference within the next few months.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on Yaz for four months and am about to get off of it. It hasn't made a difference in my acne (which was slight) and I've noticed some weight gain. I work really hard to maintain my weight with regular workouts and eating well. I hadn't changed anything in my lifestyle yet have been gaining weight, so I can definitively attribute my weight gain to this pill! And no, it is not water weight; I literally do not fit into my slacks for work. I've also had a lot of breast tenderness along with my breast size increasing - which I do not like at all. But I will say that this pill drastically decreased my period in length and bleeding. This pill has not been terrible for me. If it weren't for the weight gain, I would stay on it.”
		

  “It’s been almost 2 years on the pill (yaz). I started taking yaz because of my period and acne. I would bleed so heavy I could never control it, horrible back pain and cramps I also had acne so bad I hated going anywhere. After about 6 months to a year being on the pill my acne cleared up and I just was getting small pimples every once in a while, I gained weight in my butt, sides and thighs. Now being on the pill for 2 years I have realized how much it has affected me emotionally every month at the end of my pack I get, very depressed and crying for reasons I can’t explain. The depression and crazy mood swings affected me and my parents and boyfriend. I’m not myself and I’m not sure what to do. I feel like if I talk to my doctor about it I’m gonna have to be taken off the pill and what if my acne comes back and my period gets bad at the point I don’t care. I’m tired of not being me and feeling depressed. Any help?”
		

For Acne: “Just ended second pack of Yaz. Starting month 3, hoping to see good results with skin as they say to wait out a full 3 months. Since I got my Mirena IUD taken out 4 months ago, my acne went from nothing at all to everywhere, especially terrible on my chest!? It is just so hard on my confidence when it is on the chest. Hoping this month I'll see it start clearing up. The first month on it I was no joke crying everyday, so so emotional, I probably haven't cried in a year until I got on Yaz (Nikki generic). But that subsided and I felt stable again on month 2. Everything is temporary when hormones are trying to rebalance themselves, remember that. Still a bit emotional but better for sure. ALSO had hot flashes for 2 months everyday... haven't experienced them in a week though! Other side effects I have are bigger boobs, I'll take it! Also I've lost 10lbs on it. Most say they see weight gain with BC pills but its crazy how differently birth control effects everyone.”
		

For Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder: “I just finished my first package of Yaz. It has been a patience struggle. I had been having issues with PMS, really violent mood swings and acne. First 2 weeks on Yaz were a breeze. Third week I started feeling extremely nauseous and tired, almost like if I was drunk. Next days I started getting stomach issues: diarrhea, bloating, migraine. I stayed on it and tried to be patient. Was taking ibuprofen daily to get on.  I'm as of today on the sugar pills and I had my period for at least 10 days. I really think it made a difference with my cystic acne. I just got one cyst this month. However, my back got full of small flesh colored pimples I had never had and also I got them on my chest. I am open to take two more months of it. Its not all nice, but the body needs to adapt, so I feel it is normal to have these changes. What I did feel for a while was my veins hurting all the time, which didn't happen before. It got better after I started using compression leggings.”
		

For Acne: “I’m just now completing my 3rd week of Yaz. Before Yaz I was on the Mirena and my skin recently started breaking out a lot. I’ve always had acne but this was more than usual. I talked to my Dr and that’s when he told me I should switch BC so I did. I definitely feel like my skin is still getting worse being on Yaz. I was hoping it would clear instantly like a lot of people have mentioned. I really hope by month 2-3 is starts clearing up. If I don’t see results in that time frame I will talk to my Dr again about it. Also I have not experienced any other side effects only that my boobs look bigger.”
		
7.3
6.9
5.2
Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder
Acne
Birth Control
Summary of Yaz reviews
6.0
