Camila
Camila is a form of progesterone, a female hormone important for regulating ovulation and menstruation.
No level 1 interactions
Level 2 interactions:
Lamictal (lamotrigine)
metformin
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “I was on Camila for around 1.5 years and I think it was the best Birth Control I've been on so far. I stopped getting periods completely which was a little scary at times but honestly great. I never had crazy side affects very mild. My skin was okay but I definitely lost weight. I changed birth controls to go on Accutane and I want to go back so bad!!!!! I gained around 8lbs and my periods are now awful.”
		

For Birth Control: “Started this because I had abnormal bleeding and irregular periods but I was breastfeeding and estrogen severely effects my milk supply. First month was great, I was slightly moodier and cried a lot but for the first time in my life I had a period come as predicted. Lasted for 6 days. Completely manageable and minimal pain which I wasn’t used to. A few days later I started bleeding again, but it was very weird and dark and clumpy. I didn’t have any pain during this bleeding though. My sex drive was incredibly high and a month later, no period. And pregnant. I’ve never missed a single day and it’s taken at the same exact time. Every. Day. Soooo. Apparently progestin can have a problem connecting with your progesterone receptors. Uncommon, but, hi I’m the .1%”
		

For Birth Control: “I'll preface that I know every woman is different but I LOVE Camila birth control pill. This is the first birth control I have tried and I do not plan on switching to anything different any time soon. I have been on Camila for about a year and 3 months now (I'm currently 20) and the only side effects I have experienced was a slight libido change when I first went on it the first week. I'm currently on my 3rd period cycle (I had a period in April, June, and now October) which does not bother me too much since my gynecologist said irregular bleeding is common on "minipills." I also cannot take anything with estrogen because I get migraines with aura, so I was happy to find a pill that seems to work for me and help with my migraines! Just take into account the time sensitivity of minipills, and how important the timing of taking the pill is as this could lead to pregnancy as I've seen in other comments. If you are thinking of going on Camila, I definitely recommend it since the side effects are very minimal and it gets its job done!(:”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been using for 2 years.I Love it.”
		

For Birth Control: “So I have experienced being on both Camila and Mylan brand. Camila was the first birth control I was prescribed. For the first few months, my hair was falling out. But within a year, it grew back. Other than that, it is an amazing birth control. Better than all of the others I've tried in the past. Best of all, I didn't get a period, which I have a history of extremely painful periods. But due to insurance reasons, I recently was switched to Mylan brand. I'm 2 months in and am requesting to go back on Camila. I get periods again, but the pain is terrible also cramps, acne, depression, sore breasts, and really bad muscle pain that keeps me up at night. Don't get sucked into believing that generic vs brand name drugs are the same. There are inactive ingredients that many people experience with generic. This isn't the only medication I have problems with the generic version of.”
		

For Birth Control: “If you enjoy having your period daily for a month and a half straight, and feeling bloated and pregnant - without actually being pregnant, then this is the pill for you. You get all the wonderful symptoms of early pregnancy, bloating, tender swelling breasts, weight gain, hunger, plus the added bonus of having your period every day as well. It is a win win.!!!!!!
In case you can't tell ,I'm being sarcastic. This pill is not worth the hassle. It would be more convenient, had I actually been pregnant ,then dealing with all that.
Pretty sure I ended up being anemic before I finished finally said no more and stopped taking them.
I was only on them for a month and a half, in which I had my period almost every day.
Stopped taking the pills and period finally  stopped a day or 2 later.
This pill is garbage.”
		

For Birth Control: “Anxiety galore! I have an anxiety disorder but, my gyno believes it's "hormonal anxiety". Basically, around the time of my period I would have anxiety. I was given this Camila birth control pill, after countless trial and errors with other progesterone only birth control pills. This pill caused me 3 weeks of anxiety attacks.”
		

For Birth Control: “I see a lot of people leave really bad reviews for this birth control pill Camila and while I know people react differently, I thought I’d share a positive experience. I went on Camila because I have a migraine disorder and can’t take combo pill. The only side effect I’ve noticed (I’ve been taking Camila for almost 2 years) is occasional spotting and a slightly longer period, which are common side effects. Besides that, my period is regular and I don’t didn’t gain weight or experience any other negative side effect.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on this pill since January (4months) and still haven’t had a period. I am not sexually active which not having a period is kinda great for me at the moment but not for later on. I’m 18 and in college and I have bad migraines all the time so I had to switch from Sprintec to Camila so I did not have estrogen so I could have injections for my migraines. I’ve been bloated and gain 10 lbs which I’m not happy about. I broke out on my face mostly forehead a lot when I used to have clear skin. I have mood swing usually sad.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “I tried to take Camia for three months in order to stop very painful periods with heavy bleeding. I had one normal period, and then I had a period EVERY OTHER WEEK for two months. The severity of my periods had not changed at all, so I was essentially bedridden every other week with bad cramps and heavy bleeding. I was too exhausted to do anything on the 'off' weeks.

I hoped this birth control would work for me because I can't take estrogen birth control in case it would raise my intracranial pressure. In fact I do think that taking Camila still raised my pressure anyways, but not a significant amount. It also may have been exacerbating the ovarian cysts and polyp that I have, which are probably causing my painful periods in the first place! Ultimately the risk of side effects on top of the excessive bleeding was not worth it and I stopped taking this medication.”
		

For Birth Control: “I went on Camila about 3 years ago after getting migraines from combination pills. This has been the best pill for me. I haven't had my period in about 3 years. Once every couple of months I will spot, but nothing big at all. No side effects and I'm so happy I don't have to PMS anymore or buy tampons. One concern is the chance of pregnancy but I haven't had any close calls yet. lol”
		

For Birth Control: “Please keep in mind that everyone reacts differently to hormones and what I experienced may not be what you experience. I am writing this so the people that do experience these side effects do not feel like they are crazy. I started this birth control because I was no longer allowed to be on a combined pill. I took it for about four months and couldn’t take it anymore. My boobs hurt so bad I could barely put a bra on, my periods never regulated the way they were supposed to, I broke out like crazy and it made me so nauseous. every month I was taking a pregnancy test because all the symptoms I was experiencing were the same as if I was pregnant, the late or non existent period didn’t help either. I hope someone finds this useful.”
		

For Birth Control: “I got pregnant on this birth control Camila! I took it the way I was supposed to, same time each night, and ended up pregnant. When I went to a new gynecologist, she let me know that she’s had multiple patients get pregnant on this pill Camila and said that women taking it should be using another form of contraceptive with it. I wish I had known that earlier! On the bright side, I experienced no side effects.”
		

For Birth Control: “I started taking this after my daughter was born 7 years ago. I‘ve always had negative experiences from estrogen based contraception. I’ve had no symptoms whatsoever with Camila...other than it (or breastfeeding) caused me to miss periods. I quit it after my tubal, but recently started again due to recent abnormal cycles ”
		

For Birth Control: “PREGNANT. Yup. To be honest the pill seemed to work great for me. No weight gain that I noticed. No mood swings, crazy bleeding or pain. Nothing. But alas, it failed me. Took the pill every day. But still ended up with a bun in the oven.”
		

For Birth Control: “This pill Camila is AWFUL!!! I’ve been off &amp; on it a few times unsure whether it was the pill or just me. Nope it was the pill. If you enjoy crying nonstop for no reason, extreme anxiety &amp; depression, unable to get out bed due to exhaustion, weight gain &amp; anger issues this pill is right for you! If not, run. This pill completely changed who I was &amp; I didn’t like it at all. I was no longer my motivated bubbly self but rather a very mean cry baby who slept ALL. THE. TIME. Not to mention the constant spotting &amp; headaches. I couldn’t stand this pill anymore so I quit. Highly do not recommend.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was prescribed the pill after having frequent migraines with auras using my last birth control. Initially the pill was ok, I didn’t get frequent periods which was a plus, but my breast were always sore and I gained weight. Gradually the frequency of my periods began to increase. A year into taking the pill my period comes monthly lasting about 14 days, headaches are frequent, acne awful, I’m overweight, low sex drive and breast are always sore and I am an emotional wreck. Each month I say I’ll stop after I finish this pack..due to my blood pressure this is my last option for pills and I’m nervous about other birth control methods.”
		

For Birth Control: “Prescribed Camila as a birth control due to high blood pressure couldn't take some of the others. My first 3 months were ok. I did have changes in my skin (went from clear skin to having weird acne all the time). My periods were lighter but longer and the cramps were more painful than what I experienced pre pill. Month 4, I started having breast tenderness constantly. Period was lighter and only lasted 4 days. I thought my body had finally adjusted to the pill. That excitement didn’t last as I had heavy bleeding which started up a week later lasting 7 days. Similar situation month 5: *Possible TMI ahead* The first period was 5 days, barely any cramps, light bleeding but all tissue. There was almost no unclotted blood. Now 6 days later, I wake up yesterday to blood everywhere. Totally unexpected. At the moment, I’m having terrible cramping and heavy flow with a lot of tissue present. I hate this! The irregularity and pain is not worth it.”
		

For Birth Control: “Was on Camila for about 3 years because I have debilitating migraines. 

I love it, however I'm bloated some days, and crampy. I definitely had breakthrough bleeding.  You will have bleeding if you miss the pill sometimes. I didn't get a period for whole month and while its great , my body just felt heavy.

I had a baby( I stopped taking it) and went back on it again after”
		

For Birth Control: “I had to stop Camila after one month. Ordered it online after filling out a brief questionnaire. Due to the fact I smoke, and am 35 they gave me Camila. I used ortho tri cyclen my whole life and no issues. This one made me have my period for a straight month with maybe a week off. I bled so heavy I went to the ER And was in so much pain they thought I had developed a blood clot in my lung. I almost went a second time due to heavy bleeding again a week later. Mood swings were insane... I feel these results are caused by too much estrogen in this pill. Either way I feel so much better being off it for just one week. Good luck!”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on Camila birth control pill for a year after switching from combo to minipill due to migraine auras. Since switching my periods went back to the length and flow pre-BC (8 days &amp; medium flow). My cramps came back too. Something new was that I would get emotional a day before my period. Full on crying. My acne stayed the same when I switched. My libido stayed very high. My cycle was starting to become regular (few days early/late), until a few months ago. I haven’t changed anything but my cycle is extremely irregular now (last period was late by a week, haven’t had a period since and it’s been over a month- took several pregnancy tests and all negative), I lost my libido &amp; skin is breaking out a lot. My hormones are out of whack. Not sure what is causing it or if the side effects just took a year to kick in but I wish I could switch back to combo pills since there are diff ones to try. I don’t plan on getting off of this BC but I’m also not loving it. I will be talking to my gyno about other options.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on Camilla for 6 months, was put on after the birth of my daughter. 

Cons: Headaches, 20 pound weight gain, horrible mood swings, and longer periods (4 days start to finish vs 7.5 now.) Hair loss.  Constant cramps, I've developed extreme nausea that is similar to morning sickness, and painful sex. (These are CONSTANT. THERE IS NO BREAK FROM THESE SIDE EFFECTS.) And that's after being begged for it, as I have 0 sex drive. Let me highlight how extreme a change that is: I used to crave/ want to have sex 4 times DAILY. Now? Zero. 

Pros: less painful periods. No pregnancy. 

I have stopped taking this rubbish pill. Whoever invented it: get a new profession. 

I've been off it 2 weeks and feel so SO much better mentally and physically. Like coming out of a fog. Don't try this garbage.”
		

For Birth Control: “I had to start Camila birth control pill, because prior to this (a little over a year ago) I was using the pill with 2 hormones and I experienced a very heavy flow and not to be gross but huge blood globs for about 3 weeks. I am also on a blood thinner because of previous experience with blood clots in my left leg. My gyno said it would be best if I either went on Camila or used an IUD, since being pregnant isn't in the cards right now. So about a year ago I switched to Camila. I haven't noticed any weight gain like I experienced with the depo shot or hunger cravings like with other birth control, so that's one reason I like this pill. I have been stressed out lately, stupid family drama but I missed my most recent period. So of course I freaked out. Took several pregnancy tests and they all came back negative. Went to my gyno and she tested me saying yes you aren't pregnant. And went on to explain that since I've been on Camila everyday for almost a yr, my period might disappear often.”
		

For Birth Control: “When I first started on Camila in 2014, yes, I bled a lot over several months.   I was going through a divorce and had a lot of stress anyway.  I had lost 10 lbs in two months when I first started.  I thought that was appropriate, since the estrogen pills made me gain it.  I stayed like that for about three years.  Then, all of a sudden, it seemed like the formula changed.  The packaging sure changed.  I started gaining weight and bleeding again.  I am a marathon runner and also gym rat who watches what she eats, so I didn't understand the weight gain.  I don't know if I can get back on this one, but I have been trying others of the same active ingredients (trying each for at least four months).  The weight gain just won't stop and I will do anything to have Camila work like it used to.  All the reviews are so mixed.  I am onto Heather to see if it will take the weight off.  If not, I don't know what I will do....”
		

For Birth Control: “I love this pill. I was on Sprintec before this and that one of terrible! This pill has been good for me. I’ve lost around 10pounds.. I was 124 when I started it and 7 months later I am now at 116. I have no acne (only on my period) and my skin and hair look the same. My cramps aren’t as bad and I only get my period once a month between day 27-31 and it only last for exactly 5 days. At first I have irregular periods for about 3 months and now it’s getting on a schedule. I don’t feel depressed or sad or annoyed. I actually have PMDD and this hasn’t made it worse, it’s helped if anything. I do get massive migraines but thats nothing medicine can’t fix or a nap. I do get tired a lot and I haven’t been eating as much as I used to. Over all it’s a great pill choice and I recommend for anyone whose body can’t take estrogen like mine.”
		
4.6
1.8
1.0
Birth Control
Endometriosis
Abnormal Uterine Bleeding
Summary of Camila reviews
4.3
