Errin
Errin is a form of progesterone, a female hormone important for regulating ovulation and menstruation.
No level 1 interactions
Level 2 interactions:
metformin
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “I am 29 year old and Errin gets an absolute no from me ! After one week I have had severe cramping for days without bleeding. Bloating so tight I can't move and very hard to get rid off. Headaches and hot flashes. Nausea spells through out the day. The dr recently told me I wasn’t a candidate for an estrogen pill and proscribed me this. However I have never experienced any side effect worse then this pill: stay away!!”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “This birth control Errin is unbearable!!!! I have two to three periods a month! Also I have huge blood clots on this pill. I’m so sick of spending money on hygiene products. I’m at my wits ends with this. Avoid this pill!”
		

For Birth Control: “I was prescribed Errin for BC as I cannot take estrogen. For the first month my only side effect was sore breasts. That went away. The second month my side effect was a racing heart. Also during this time I developed a recurring yeast infection problem. The racing heart went away the 3rd month, but the constipation started. Constipation &amp; yeast infections from a dry V. I stopped halfway thru the 4th month because I couldn’t take the constipation anymore &amp; any time I had sex I'd get a YI. Two other things this entire course of time on the pill. 1, it intensified my anxiety and made me paranoid and 2, it got rid of my sex drive. I think the only thing I liked about it was that it made my period lighter and shorter, but didn’t affect it at all otherwise. I’m writing this review because the side effects I experienced I hadn’t heard anyone else talk about. I never got pregnant tho, which is good so I would consider this effective hence the 9/10 but I will never take hormonal BC again.”
		

For Birth Control: “Started Errin due to migraines from combination pills. Errin gave me cystic acne that does not respond to any treatment which is very annoying but I’m dealing with it because this is the only BC I can tolerate. Starting in May I had a period at the beginning of the month, and end of the month, both 5 days long. (Pretty normal) No period the whole month of July or August, then 2 in September. One lasting 5 days and the other lasting 8. No period in October, and one in November. They consist of heavy clotting and very dark blood. The cramps are very uncomfortable. I also have constant breakthrough spotting which is enough to fill liners. Very inconvenient but this is what I’ll continue with.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on Errin for about 7 months and I have never experienced more painful period cramps. That is my only complaint while being on this birth control. Before starting this pill, I was taking Lo Loesterin Fe and I experienced terrible acne, felt depressed and emotional constantly, and gained some weight. Although the cramps have been bad with Errin, I would rather take this pill than what I did before.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “My initial experience was terrible because I would not stop bleeding and after I could not bare it anymore I went to the doctor in tears and frustration and she switched me to Slynd which is a bit of a higher mg and the bleeding stopped in about a week. Seems to be going better with the higher dosage of the pregestin. Definitely check out Slynd if the bleeding is too persistent on Errin.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on Errin for five months now, about to start my sixth pack. The first few months were rough as my body got used to the hormones as this was my first ever time taking birth control (21 year old). I bled for about a week every two weeks for the first four months, and now it seems that I’m back to a regular monthly period. I started getting acne almost immediately, with it peaking around the four month mark. It’s slowly getting better with prescription medication. I’ve experienced minor weight gain but that could just be a side effect of being in a relationship lol! My partner and I don’t use condoms or the pull out method and have sex pretty frequently (multiple times a week) and I haven’t gotten pregnant yet (knock on wood!) so overall I’d say this is really effective!”
		

For Birth Control: “Update from my September post. Okay, I stopped taking it for about a week after my original post because I was so sick of bleeding. After my cycle finally ending, I started taking it again and I can say there has been noticeable improvement. My cycles come like clockwork now only once per month”
		

For Endometriosis: “I had god awful endometriosis, when I get my period I have cramps so bad I cannot function, diarrhea, and nausea. I started Errin to help fix this issue. The first month I didn’t bleed but had god awful cramps (per expected). After the first month my periods came twice a month and lasted about 7 days. My cramps weren’t as bad as when not using birth control. 8 months later and it’s still the  same. I’m actually getting off Errin because my active lifestyle isn’t really fitting with having my period half the month. With Errin my acne skyrocketed too. My chin and cheeks have never been so broken out in my life. I used to never wear makeup and now I can’t bring myself to be in public without it. I’m go glad I have to wear a mask in public because of how bad my acne is. Altogether, I didn’t get pregnant, my cramps got slightly better, and my acne is uncontrollable. Wouldn’t really recommend.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “I was prescribed Errin as an alternative birth control because of having high blood pressure. The first 3 months were normal with my period last about 5-6 days. On the 4th month I started bleeding profusely! I would bleed through heavy pads in 3 hours. The bleeding was full of huge clots. I lost so much blood that was pale and required to come into the doctor's office for a checkup. The cramping was unbearable. There is no way this medication is worth the pain and money it costs in feminine products. The birth control works in preventing pregnancy because who would want to have sex with you when you are bleeding through your clothes! Terrible experience.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “I started this birth control in April of 2020 and this is almost my 7th month being on it. The first month was okay but it made me really depressed. I was prescribed this birth control because I can’t take combination pills due to the fact that I have migraines. I’ve been bleeding twice a month since then and I was told to give it time and that it would get better after the 6 month adjustment period. I’m still bleeding 2 times a month and it’s been almost 7 months. I keep track of everything on the Flo app and I always seem to bleed around the time that I’m supposed to “ovulate” I’m not sure if that has something to do with it or what but it’s very very annoying. It’s doing it’s job though I just wish I wouldn’t bleed 2 times in 1 month. It’s annoying enough having 1 period and now I have 2.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “I've been taking Errin for over a year now and I stopped having a period in March. I stopped the pill till May 18th because I was waiting for a period. I then continued my pill as my gyno said it can be actually normal to have no period at all. So I got back on them in May. In Aug I had a 9 day nightmare blood bath period.  It's now November and I haven't had one since. Only small amounts of brown. 16 negative pregnancy tests. And I'm 2 months late. Now I'm feeling movement and pressure and thumping. I'm going crazy, this pill makes you actually feel pregnant but you don't get pregnant.”
		

For Birth Control: “Started taking Erin in February. Stopped having a period for 6 months then all of a sudden I’m having either a period or spotting every 2 days after it stops. Example: started my period or spotting on Sunday and last about a week and stops then starts again 2 days later. The dr refuses to give me any other birth control and I’ve gone to her many times asking to change it. So I’m just dealing with a non stop periods/spotting. I cannot afford insurance and am on the Healthy Texas women which is why I haven’t gone to another dr.”
		

For Birth Control: “I switch to Errin due to bad side effects on combination bc. I didn’t get any break through bleeding and only got periods when expected, lasting 6 days. One downside is having to take it within a 3 hour window, and missing results in spotting. However, I do think it was worth not having the mental side effects. Also, my skin got quite a bit worse. I broke out with white heads (no change in cystic pimples) a lot more, especially around my period. I am seeing a dermatologist to correct this. I’d also like to note, TMI, but I had noticeably less annoyingly thick discharge on Errin. Overall, if you think you might have an estrogen sensitivity, it’s worth trying. My libido went back to normal, don’t need naps, and I don’t experience mood swings anymore. I will say, you have to know yourself and whether you’d actually be diligent about taking it in the 3 hour window.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have been using Errin for about a year now and honestly I love it. Before Errin, I used a combined BC pill and I had awful side effects. My limbs went numb, I had terrible headaches, I was very dizzy and nauseous. My healthcare provider recommended a POP because of my past experience with estrogen. Since being on Errin, I have honestly had no side effects. Definitely recommend this BC for those who can’t have estrogen like me.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “Started on Errin 4 weeks after I had my son and I have been on it for almost 4 months now and the last 2 months I have had a period 2 times a month which is so unusual for me. After reading everyone's experiences with it I am glad I'm not the only one that is like this. I was wondering if it was my body getting back on track after having my son or the birth control. Since I'm a smoker I was put on this and it was the only pill offered to me. It was this or the IUD and I really don't want a foreign object in my body. Great as a birth control but for me I was using it for 2 reasons and it was as a birth control and to STOP my periods.”
		

For Birth Control: “well I didn't get pregnant thankfully of Errin birth control pill. I always took the same bc since I was 14 with no issues. Turned 35 and had to switch but have now stopped taking Errin due to negative side effects. My hair and face get really oily fast. I've stopped having my period, developed cystic acne, and developed eczema since taking this bc.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “So I started to take Errin because this was what was suggested. I regret it so much. I took it everyday on time - I had an alarm set so I know it was taken on time religiously. I started to bleed constantly  and it got to the point the clots that started to come out were huge. Like ungodly my new normal became  multiple periods in a month, it sucked. Costing more  in hygienic products in a month then I have spent over 3 months without taking it I shouldn't be going thru the big box of tampons in a week. -_- when they normally last me months granted everyone can experience different things. But this is my experience and why I rated it what I did.”
		

For Birth Control: “Been on Errin birth control pill for about 2 months. I ended my normal cycle September 3rd. On September 12th I started my period again and am still bleeding heavily. I immediately stopped after I began my period within a week of if it ending. Drinking a lot of water to try and flush everything out and hoping that this stops soon ”
		

For Birth Control: “Was on the depo shot for 2 years. Everything was okay the first year but I switched because my last 6 months on it was terrible! I had no period for 4 months, it made my depression worse, I was always bloated, gained over 30 pounds, had nipple discharge, and was struggling to stay self lubricated during sex. I decided to switch to a pill and my doctor recommended Errin due to my background of migraines. I have been on it for almost 4 months and I got my period back a month into it, I am no longer constantly depressed or constantly bloated, it doesn’t seem to give me rapid weight gain (I lost two pounds since starting), no more nipple discharge (my breasts grew half a cup size, actually), and I have no dryness issues. I finally feel normal again. I would give it a 10/10 but I haven't been on it long enough. I would recommend anyone who had a good experience with depo that turned horrible to try Errin out.”
		

For Endometriosis: “Errin is a medical miracle. I have been off bith control for quite some time and have started this wonderful medication. My sex drive is up, I feel so much energy, Im excited for my husband to come home. So far no bleeding or spotting. And I have been urinating like crazy so it looks like a am dropping a ton of water weight. I'm excited to see what next month hold as far as my period goes. Thank you for whomever made this drug. My husband and I love you......”
		

For Birth Control: “If you’re trying not to get pregnant do not take this Errin brith control! I was out on this due to acute high blood pressure by my pcp after being on the combo pill for years. 6 months in I ended up having an ectopic pregnancy and having to have surgery to remove it along with my entire right Fallopian tube. I never missed a pill or was late. Took it by alarm every single day!! Be aware!!!”
		

For Birth Control: “I’m fifty and I took Errin birth control pill for six months and just quit it due to side effects. I lost a lot of hair, which was extremely noticeable. You can now see my scalp through my hair from five feet away. I used to have thick hair so this really affected me. I also had painful cystic acne around my mouth. I never had acne my entire life. Always had great skin. Now I have scars on my face. Lastly, lengthy heavy bleeding during my period. It would last ten days and consisted of large clots of blood that would leak out past a tampon. It’s just not worth it. Avoid at all costs.”
		

For Birth Control: “I switched to Errin 4 months ago after learning that my migraines were likely due to the combo-pill. I have not had a single migraine since switching and I used to get them every other month. So a bit too soon to say for sure, but it seems to be helping in that regard. I had perfect skin on the combo pill and unfortunately get minor acne with Errin. My skin feels bumpy but there isn't visible acne so it could be worse. The first month I had a normal period, then no period for 2 months. During this 4th month I've had a heavy, long period that just doesn't seem to want to end. I'm hoping this goes away because the first 3 months were great. But reducing my risk of stroke and eliminating my migraines is enough for me to stay on the mini pill.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “Errin is Awful!! So I had my IUD removed and was put on Errin First month was fabulous one regular month lasted 6 days but my normal was 4 still not a big deal So month two first week not so bad at all and then the rest came. It’s been about 3 months and I have bled every week for 3 weeks. It’s great for preventing pregnancy but costing me a fortune in feminine hygiene products because I just can’t stop bleeding. My skin stays broken out, my breasts are constantly tender. The second month I bled with a 3 day break following and I have been bleeding since and it’s not just a light flow I’m talking if you feel the need to change your product you better run to the nearest restroom. For me it has just gushed and I can’t quite understand why. I contacted my OBGYN and was told to stop taking it immediately but if I had dizziness, shortness of breath or a racing heart I needed to get to the nearest emergency room. Apparently it’s a common side effect but not a good one and not right for me”
		
5.2
5.1
4.4
Birth Control
Endometriosis
Abnormal Uterine Bleeding
Summary of Errin reviews
5.0
