Jolivette
Jolivette is a form of progesterone, a female hormone important for regulating ovulation and menstruation.
No level 1 interactions
No level 2 interactions
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “I've only been on this medication for two days and already have severe itching on my feet, ankles and now wrist. I looked up the side effects and itching and rash were on the list. The first day I took the pill I saw a faint hint of pink after going to the bathroom. And I also started this pill after my cycle went off. I'm discontinuing this pill today because the itching is unbearable!”
		

For Birth Control: “Loved it. No side affects and rarely got my period!”
		

For Birth Control: “Major weight gain! Holy heck!! Want to know how bad it was? There happened to be a lapse in my refill of this medication. I could not get it for almost 3 weeks. I lost almost 15 pounds. Started taking it again - boom. Weight is back. 

 It seems so hard to believe that the 0.35mg I am on  causes so much hassle. 
 
Side effects at the beginning were so bad I thought I was going insane. Massive mood swings, my breasts hurt so bad I thought I was going to die of boob-pain, back pain, horrible weight gain...I could go on and on!

 Also, got pregnant on this medicine even of perfect use in the first 6 months of taking this medication despite my husband "pulling out" and suffered a miscarriage. I literally had no clue I was pregnant until that happened! SCARY!  

 I've been on all the other brand names of this medicine Errin (discontinued?) and Heather - but Jolivette is the WORST!!”
		

For Birth Control: “I started this pill 7 weeks after having my daughter because I was breastfeeding. Did not notice a decrease in my supply. I have been taking it for 10 months. I've been suffering from postpartum depression and recently stopped taking the pill. I can tell a huge difference and it has been 2 weeks.  Now that I think about it and read all these experiences, I see a lot of similarities. I’ve had horrible anxiety and depression, it’s been hard to lose weight! And I have experienced hair loss. I’m going to continue off the pill and figure out what next birth control I should use next.”
		

For Birth Control: “I started this pill ten days ago. I gave birth seven weeks ago. My milk supply was low to begin with, I am barely getting one feeding in after 8 days of this BC. I struggle with mild anxiety and depression pretty rarely however the last two days I have wanted to just cry and I felt detached from my children and husband. I have been anxious and I don’t know why. I have been an endless pit for food, I feel that I can not eat enough and I also started to get a break out of pimples on my forehead(I have never had acne) after calling my husband crying and telling him I had been sleeping majority of the day and crying we decided it was best to stop the medication immediately. This was my experience with the medication, I can not wait it out and hope it gets better. I do not want to spend my precious maternity leave feeling detached from my NB and depressed/anxious.”
		

For Birth Control: “I had weight gain and severe hormonal acne after 5 months on Jolivette. I would not recommend.”
		

For Birth Control: “So far so good! I was previously on Ortho Tri but then swapped to generic version TriNessa and it was horrible!! I had break thru bleeding for like a month then bad headaches and I felt like I was going insane with my moods and feelings. I asked gyno to switch me to something not so hardcore and she prescribed Jolivette. Its been  great!  No break thru bleeding, slight headache (once in a while) bigger  boobs and, sometimes  I break out. Other than that I’m doing ok on this pill. I started taking it mid June and I’m on my second pack so I hope it continues to be the same all year. You have to remember to take it at the same time every day, set an alarm because it will not work if you’re late.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was previously on Ortho Tri Cyclin which made me have weight gain, super bad mood swings, anxiety and depression.  I was then switched to Jolivette and have had no horrible side effects.  I have noticed I haven’t really been able to lose the weight gained from my previous pill but that’s the only downside. Other than that I completely love this pill!  I am back to the same old normal happy me. :)”
		

For Birth Control: “Jolivette pill is pretty good. I take it mainly due to the fact I can get migraines and its safer to take a non combo pill.  My period is not as bad on this pill and the side effects aren't too bad. Small weight gain and increase in breast size, some irritability but not too bad. It does help with my headaches and is effective in preventing pregnancy. You just need to be careful to take it at or around same time each day/night.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on the brand Ortho Micronor until my insurance company decided not to cover it anymore-- they put me on Jolivette. After about a week of taking this pill I noticed that I was getting horrible anxiety about the smallest little things. By week 2, it was so bad that I was afraid to leave my apartment. Simple tasks such as going out to dinner, or going shopping with friends became very taxing. As someone who has never experience severe anxiety, this was a very scary time. I also knew that this wasn't normal for me. I stopped taking this medication and the panic and anxiety attacks stopped. I will never recommend this pill to anybody as it was one of the most depressing and scary times in my life.”
		

For Birth Control: “My doctor switched me to this from NoraBe. I'm so glad she did! I often forget to take my pill. When I would forget with NoraBe, I'd feel meh all day. I have an active 3 year old who I stay at home with. If I'd miss a pill, every little thing she did would stress me out. With Jolivette, if I miss a day or don't take it on time, my family doesn't notice as much. My old non-existent sex drive is gone! I had absolutely no desire do anything. Now, my hormones are all levelled out and I actually find myself initiating which is something I haven't done since before my pregnancy. I don't notice any other side effects besides breakthrough bleeding. I've been taking this for two months and my cycle still isn't on a regular schedule. NoraBe had me menstruating every two weeks. Now Jolivette is causing breakthrough bleeding so I'm never sure if I'm actually starting my period naturally or the breakthrough bleeding is happening when my period should be starting.”
		

For Birth Control: “I got pregnant on this BC”
		

For Birth Control: “This medication is not for me. I started it a few months ago after an ectopic pregnancy. My mood has changed so much to a point where my anxiety and depression were so bad I thought I was losing my mind. My headaches have increased and I cry a lot. Not normal for me. I also have Hypothyroidism and it actually changed my levels. After reading what other people have gone through I have decided to stop this medication immediately. I seriously thought I was going to end up in the Psych unit!”
		

For Birth Control: “I was prescribed this pill suddenly after my insurance decided not to cover Nora Be anymore. I suffer from anxiety and take Zoloft to control it. After taking just 6 days of this pill, it made me almost loose my mind. I would tremble and shake, heart palpitations and had the worst anxiety attack I had ever experienced. Do not take this if you issue like me!”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been taking this pill for about six months because of migraines &amp; combo pills were giving me serious depression. When I started it I bled for three weeks. Not spotting, heavy bleeding. They said I’d adjust and finally I did, but my periods became even more irregular, painful, and heavy. Then I noticed that sex was becoming painful, orgasms were even becoming painful! I was super dry down there and irritated, my breasts were always sore, tons of cystic acne, I was getting hot flashes and sweating tons, basically menopause at 22 but still bleeding! And then the final straw: I started getting yeast infections every two weeks like clockwork. Ridiculous. I’d never had any problem like that until I started this medication. I discontinued it one week ago and immediately felt better. Everything is back to normal everywhere and I’ll never take a mini pill again. The only good thing I can think of is an increase in cup size, and that’s not worth it if everything hurts!”
		

For Birth Control: “I honestly didn't even know all the issues I've been experiencing were due to Jolivette until I switched to Heather, and was doing research to compare it to this one. I have had the worst side effects! I have literally gone completely crazy, had multiple psychotic episodes, I'm shocked my boyfriend is still with me too! I became super depressed, unmotivated, lazy, I was having night sweats so bad I would be soaked when I woke up. Insomnia like crazy. So glad I switched and definitely will never go back on Jolivette !! It literally almost ruined my life.”
		

For Amenorrhea: “I previously had heavy periods for more than 10 days with heavy bleeding. This caused me to have iron infusions on a regular basis. I was losing my hair, had high blood pressure, insomnia, migraines and the list goes on..after only 2 months on Jolivette .35 my periods are what I think are normal. I've never had a normal period ever. I'm currently using panty liners with regular or light tampons. Prior to this only overnight pads and Super + tampons. All other symptoms have all gone away. Only minor cramping. Love this new pill. Let's see what the next few months brings.”
		

For Birth Control: “This birth control is effective, I had no breakthrough bleeding, no mood swings, and no acne. Great for people who have migraines and cannot take estrogen BC. Highly recommend.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was prescribed this because I was breastfeeding and didn’t want something too strong, I know everyone’s different and these are my side effects. Bloated, headaches numbness in my arm Mood swings but the worse is I’ve been on my period for almost 3 weeks since I started taking this. So if that was the goal keeping me on my period to have no intimacy which equals no baby then good job!!”
		

For Birth Control: “I was prescribed Jolivette due to high blood pressure caused by a combination pill. I bled every other day for the first three months with major cramping and fatigue. I was not myself after three months; a severe drop in my bodies ability to produce natural estrogen; hair has thinned significantly, cycle has disappeared, no period my boobs shrunk, sex drive basically non existent also NIGHT SWEATS which were out of control. Hot flashes. soaked my sheets 5 nights a wk. physical side effects were awful in my experience, its harder to pinpoint the mental; I haven't been myself without my cycle. I stopped this pill a week ago; never again. Will be naturally tracking my fertility from here on out. Beware of the mini pill.”
		

For Birth Control: “After having discontinued BC altogether 4 years ago now, I was hesitant to begin this pill. However, after having my first baby 4 months ago (and being that I breast feed so I need a lo hormonal dose) my midwife insisted this was good for my needs. I'm 5 or 6 days in and I threw the entire pack away. I have severe abdominal cramping/discomfort, I haven't bled since delivering my baby but from day 2 of using Jolivette I began to spot, now I have a heavy flow. I can do without this awful pill.”
		

For Birth Control: “Ooh my... what a nightmare the past 6 months have been!!! I relate with a lot of the comments here.  I was nauseous and moody mostly but when I say moody I mean full on psychotic episodes... I'm surprised my boyfriend is still even with me..
I felt hopeless and unmotivated 24/7...stay away from this awful medication!!!”
		

For Birth Control: “Although my experience with Lo Loestrin Fe was much worse, Jolivette made me feel terrible. Extreme stomach pain, bloating, fatigue, and low sex drive.”
		

For Birth Control: “I started taking Jolivette 5 months ago. First, to all you breastfeeding moms out there, I have had NO decrease in milk supply. And that from a woman who had to supplement with first 2 babies within their first 3 months because of low supply and low weight gain. My 3rd baby is now 5 1/2 months old and still exclusively breastfed and gaining weight beautifully. So it doesn't always affect milk supply.  I've taken different BC pills before and always suffered severe anxiety and depression just before starting my period. I was worried about starting another pill but haven't had any problems yet. My first month on these pills I had a heavy period, but haven't had another one since. I'm pretty happy with these pills”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “I had a Swollen uterus with Atypical Squamous Cells of Undetermined Significance (ASCUS) So I was  started on this.  Since then I’ve begun having a mild headache most of the day, most days. I’ve also had a stomach bug and stomach infection within 3 months of each other. I’ve only had 2 stomach bugs in my 35 years and 0 stomach infections. There have been 2 times I’ve noticed one arm going numb and a few days ago the right side of my body became numb and weak and I was able to move my arm and leg but it took more effort than the left side of my body. It eventually went back to normal. I have noticed my periods are normal again. Before this medicine I would  spot for 3-5 days, have a heavy period for 2 days, a lighter flow for 1-2 days, and then spot for 5-7 days thereafter. During ovulation I would have a thick, brown cervical mucous.”
		
8.5
5.0
5.0
2.3
Amenorrhea
Birth Control
Endometriosis
Abnormal Uterine Bleeding
Summary of Jolivette reviews
5.0
