Nora-be
Nora-Be is a form of progesterone, a female hormone important for regulating ovulation and menstruation.
No level 1 interactions
Level 2 interactions:
metformin
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “I was switched to Nora-Be from generic Beyaz. I have horrible issues with estrogen (mainly caused my PCOS and PMDD) and so I needed a progestin only option. Currently on pack one and will update again in a few months but it’s amazing how much my PMDD/intrusive thoughts have decreased since starting this. No issues with acne or weight so far. Birth control is so individual that it can be trial and error to see what works. There are so many different kinds of progestin that certain ones you swear by may be awful for other women. This is just my current experience with Nora-Be, will be back to update!”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “This is the most awful birth control pill I’ve ever taken in my entire life, and I’ve tried several. I took it exactly on time every day for one week. Starting with day 3, I had a constant headache, nausea, acne, pain in my legs, generalized pain in my body (back, joints, etc). By day 5 I was bleeding a little, then by day 7 I was bleeding a LOT - like if someone just drew blood straight from my arm and dumped it in the toilet. It wasn’t even like normal period blood it was so bright red and thin. And on top of the other symptoms, I was dizzy and had cramping, too. It also gave me intense hot flashes and a slight fever, I was sweating practically all the time, and I would wake up several times a night. AWFUL I would absolutely never recommend this pill to anyone. If I could give it negative stars, I would.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was prescribed this pill postpartum. I took it for 5 weeks and never got a period. At week 5 I woke up to SEVERE stomach pain/cramps. At first I didn’t know what was causing the stomach pain. After process of elimination I circled it back to this contraceptive. I stopped taking the pill and within 48 hrs the stomach cramps went away. I know everyone’s body reacts differently and this may work for some but the pain seriously felt like contractions and was a little startling at first not knowing why I was in so much pain. I will never take this pill again”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on another birth control for awhile and I was pretty happy with it, my anxiety relaxed and I was able to be okay and gain a couple pounds but it was healthy amount of pounds. For some reason my birth control had switched and I got the Nora-Be one. My anxiety went from being okay to completely down hill again. My weight was now exceeding way too much I was 116 and now 139, I have also been 114-120 (last year I was 116) for around four years since I have fast metabolism. It also has caused me to get bacterial vaginosis and then caused a UTI because sadly I actually didn’t know I had one for a couple of weeks that I had an infection because I was not very educated on infections since I never had one until taking this birth control. Please if you notice symptoms talk to a doctor or ask for a switch. I understand everyone’s body is different but this pill was not the right one for me.”
		

For Birth Control: “I stopped taking the depo shot due to the negative effects on my mood, weight gain, and sexual appetite. I was not on any birth control for about a year and then decided to try Nora Be. I’ve been on it for about 3 months now and out of the entire 12 weeks, I’ve been bleeding for about 9 weeks. It is terrible. Not just a little spotting. No. BLEEDING. I’ve also had BV (bacterial vaginosis) which I’ve never had before. I also gained about 10 pounds in 3 month which is scary. I am done with this pill. The only positive thing I have to say about it is that my acne has cleared since being ok this pill. However I also started taking a probiotic for the BV so that may have been what helped the acne too.”
		

For Birth Control: “Used this for birth control. I had a TIA at a young age, so my Doctors prescribed this pill as I can't have the others. I had no issues with it. Maybe loss of appetite, but not a bad thing as I enjoy too much junk food. So overall, this pill helped with obviously birth control, no weird symptoms. Maybe a moment of dizziness, but nothing scary. Plus side, helped me chill out on junk food!”
		

For Birth Control: “I have had a pretty positive experience on this pill. I have been on Nora-be for about 5 months, and I have had regular periods, lasting exactly my usual 26 days, except for the most recent month where my cycle lasted 40 days (period length has still been 4-5 days). My mood feels more stable on this pill than not, and I felt stabilized after the first month. I have gained 8lbs since being on this pill, but it feels like this pill just increased my cravings for bad food, not necessarily forcing my weight gain. For the first 2 months, my acne was really bad. I’m on a prescribed acne cream and it took my skin 4 months to clear back up, but everything is fine and adjusted. The UTI’s are the biggest hassle. I had never had a UTI before this pill and I’ve had one almost every month since.”
		

For Birth Control: “So my provider put me on this birth control 2 months after I had my son. After about 4 days of starting the pill I have had heavy bleeding and severe cramps. It is now day 8 and my symptoms aren’t any better. I honestly am just upset my doctor didn’t warn me about the heavy irregular bleedings that this pill will cause, normally I have very light periods.”
		

For Birth Control: “I've been on these pills for 4 months now and I decided last night that I'm never taking another one. I have had a period twice a month since I began. The first two months I ignored it thinking my body just needed time to get used to it. I have cramping, I bleed heavy for the first 3-4 days then have mild/regular bleeding for 4 full days after. It doesn't start getting light until about the 8th day... to have a period twice a month that lasts over a week is appalling and the manufacturers should be ashamed of themselves. The only reason I started these pills is because I had just stopped nursing my toddler and wanted a low dose birth control option. I'm giving them one star because the one good thing about this pill is that I haven't gotten pregnant even after having unprotected sex on a regular basis with my boyfriend. I am going to meet with my doctor asap and change my script. My advice to anyone thinking about starting this pill... DON'T. Don't waste your time, money, or health.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been taking Nora-Be for about 10 months now and I’ve had a decent experience. I get some breakthrough bleeding every once in awhile. The side effect that is causing me to quit this pill is an increase in UTI’s. Ever since I’ve started this pill I’ve gotten a UTI every month without fail! So frustrating! I read somewhere that it thins the vaginal/urethral lining and makes it more susceptible to infections like yeast, bv and UTI’s. UGH!”
		

For Birth Control: “I only have two side effects, but those two happen to be extremely annoying - I bleed for two weeks at a time, and I'm irregular. Sometimes my cycle is over 30 days, sometimes it's only 15. Hoping these symptoms get better with time, because I can't live like this long term.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “I’ve been on this pill for 2 months now because I couldn’t take the combined pill anymore due to elevated blood pressure.
I absolutely hate this pill and am switching to the implant next week.
I am on my period all the time (like 3 weeks out of 4)  and get terrible cramping constantly. I also get nauseous and feel like I am losing hair.
For me this pill is just not working.”
		

For Birth Control: “I started taking Nora-Be in January of 2018 for my periods (horrible cramps and heavy periods) and for birth control. Since I've been taking this I haven't really noticed any bad side effects, except maybe my weight gain. In 16 months I have gained 30 pounds. Other than that I haven't had any bad mood swings, acne (other than what I normally have gotten my whole life). I can't take regular birth control with both hormones  because there is a history of blood clots in my family. 

Overall I like this medication. its helped my bleeding and cramping so much.”
		

For Birth Control: “I feel like I'm always having a period on this pill. One week I have cramps, then I start, one week free, then cramps again. I'm having a period every 2.5 - 3 weeks. Its ridiculous! Still having cramps,  heavy periods, and I've gained 15 lbs in 2 years of being on it. I want to switch but with having a little elevation in my blood pressure they say it's the best pill for me. I hate taking it. I want to switch it go off completely..”
		

For Birth Control: “I started taking Nora-Be over 7 years ago after having my baby. I was breastfeeding at the time and going on this mini pill made sense.

 Through out the past 7 years I’ve gained 37 pounds. I didn’t  change my diet or exercise. I had horrible migraines and sensitivity to light. My hair was falling out like crazy. My periods were so irregular. I would have random bleeding   and spotting through out the month.  I had horrible mood swings and anxiety. I would feel sad and stressed out for no reason. I had bad insomnia and my blood pressure also increased.   I never got pregnant though. 

I never ever made the connection that Nora Be could be  the reason why I was experiencing all these issue. I kept going to the dr through out the years and no one made the connection either. I finally stop taking it 3 days ago. I hope it gets better for me.  I’m in the process of losing weight and just being healthier. Everyone is different but I wouldn’t recommend Nora-Be.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have taken Nora-Be birth control pill for 6 days, and it only just now occurred to me in reading this thread that the pill was causing the problem. I have literally had two completely sleepless night; other nights I slept badly, I'm exhausted, tense, angry, hot, and felt pressure on my chest and have had a lot more GERD than is typical for me. I don't know if it's all the Nora-Be, but the insomnia is the worst; I am going to stop taking it now.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “I'm a little surprised at the negative reviews but I understand everyone is different. I was put on Nora-Be due to extremely heavy periods in my mid 30's. I have been on this pill for 5 years now and am quite pleased with the efficacy. While I still have a cycle (some people will stop having a period once taking Nora-be) it is significantly lighter. Once in a blue moon I would get breakthrough bleeding but that all stopped after the first month of taking Nora-be. I feel my mood has been more stable since before the pill and it has not affected my weight at all.”
		

For Birth Control: “I started taking Nora Be at age 44 after being  on ortho cyclen for 5 years. Doctor recommended I switch to POP (progestin only pill) because of elevated blood pressure. Should have stayed on ortho cycle.  I felt all right the first 3 weeks but on the fourth week I was bleeding really heavily, super plus tampons soaked  with blood, had the worst PMS symptoms ever. Immediately stopped taking them. I still feel depressed even though I have been off of them for almost two weeks. Just wondering if anyone else has had a similar experience? Would NOT recommend Nora-Be.”
		

For Birth Control: “Started taking Nora BE (norethindrone) about ten months ago after having a serious DVT and pulmonary embolism with lung damage. I had been on Nuvaring prior to that for over a decade without issue, but after DVT/PE I can only use birth control methods without estrogens.  Overall, I am satisfied with Nora Be and haven’t had any pregnancies while taking it. When I first started, I did notice my breasts were more tender, periods were less regular/reliable and I had some hair loss (although I am unsure on whether taking this caused it). Those have all resolved.  It has to be taken at the same time every day, so I set an alarm and am pretty good about taking it on time. I take a pregnancy test now and then if my period runs late. There has only been one month on this pill that I did not get a period. It can be less convenient than other methods (at least at first),  but better than nothing for those of us who have limited birth control options due to health issues.”
		

For Endometriosis: “I got on this Nora-Be pill maybe 3ish years ago. Thought it was helping my Endometriosis. But my Gyno and hormone doctor told me it wasn't great for helping Endo. I'm taking progesterone as a hormone pill. Nora B has made my life change for the worse. Horrible acne, weight gain and unwanted hair on my face. Also my mood has changed since I've been on it. I stopped taking Nora B today and I know once it gets out of my system I'll be way better. In the near future probably 2-3 months I do wanna get back on a better birth control that will help it better. I do not recommend this birth control to any women with Endo. Does not help and makes things worse for you. I am 26 years old and without insurance right now. Without it, the pill for 3 months is over $130. Again I do not recommend this birth control”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “49 years old got on this medication to regulate insanely heavy periods. At 7 weeks I have not yet had a period - yay! However, in the last two weeks I began developing lower abdominal pain and cramping on right side. At times there is a great deal of pressure, causing an urgency to urinate. Very distracting and uncomfortable and has me using the bathroom every hour. My doctor said to try to stick it out but I am getting off of this medication due to these side effects. I read online that progesterone can cause changes and functioning to the GI tract  like mine. I also have some nausea and heartburn with this medication so I don't think it is for me. Also noticed my hair falling out at about week 5. Everybody is different, but I think I will try and more natural approach to lightening my periods. Good luck everybody!”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “I have abnormal bleeding with heavy clots every day. I go for days if not weeks or months with spotting after an 8 day cycle. Back in December 2018 I got the Mirena IUD and my body expelled it on the 29th day. I got it the second time and again it came out by the 2nd week. My Dr. recommended Nora Be and after reading all these side effects I decided not to even bothered with it. So thank you to all of you because your comments do help.”
		

For Birth Control: “My mom passed away from taking Nora-Be. Please, do not take.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “I loved this birth control Nora-Be, it cleared my skin issues and it didn’t give me headaches until I got my period. I went from having a moderate flow to heavy flow, having to change every 2hrs because my tampon is soaked through and this was the first day of my period. I’m on my third day and it’s still the same, emailed my Dr to get a new prescription.”
		

For Birth Control: “I switched from Lyza to Nora-Be about 3 months ago and was told it was the same thing. Same hormone, dosage and everything. But it does not feel the same and I can't figure out why. When I was on Lyza I felt even better than without birth control. But once I started the Nora-be I started feeling depressed within the first few days, and it just continued to get worse! I thought I would level out after some time, but no, it's still continuing to worsen. It is like PMSing 24/7 (including the cramps). An emotional rollercoaster ride that just won't stop along with unexpected physical discomfort like joint pain, bloating, headaches, and it's even messing with my blood pressure! If you react sensitively to hormones, then this one may not be right for you. Although everyone's body reacts differently! I would recommend Lyza instead as a similar alternative for a more levelled experience (especially emotionally).”
		
5.1
4.8
4.5
1.0
Abnormal Uterine Bleeding
Endometriosis
Birth Control
Amenorrhea
Summary of Nora-Be reviews
4.6
