Ortho micronor
Ortho Micronor is a form of progesterone, a female hormone important for regulating ovulation and menstruation.
No level 1 interactions
Level 2 interactions:
Lamictal (lamotrigine)
metformin
No level 3 interactions

For Birth Control: “I was having heavy periods causing some minor issues with my iron levels &amp; affecting my ability to work.

In 3 months, I have had a total of 27 days without bleeding of some sort. These non-bleeding days have not happened all at once but a day here &amp; there.

I have had spotting that varies from very light to "is this a period?" amount.  I've had extra periods.  I've had an increase in the number of clots produced.  I went from using 30 tampons and 10-20 pads per month to using around 96 tampons and 30-45 pads per month.

My last period started almost a week early &amp; lasted 12 days.  3 of those days produced so much clotting that I couldn't work because I needed to change my tampon every hour because the clots were oozing out.

My gynecologist has decided I need an "emergency" exam due to the amount of bleeding &amp; clotting that has happened &amp; to see what our next step is since this pill has made my issues much worse.”
		

For Endometriosis: “I have been on this pill Ortho Micronor for 3 months due to a hemo cyst and endo- hemo cyst went away, but periods are now happening every 3 weeks not 4 weeks- the pain and flow is the same. If you are not sexually active and don't have a cyst- don't take this- it has done nothing to help with my endo or chronic pain- I am still experience sciatic pain, painful ovulations- nothing has changed. In fact I got more help from my anti-inflammatory diet, advil and yoga to regulate my cycles and minimize the cramp pain. I definitely do not want to have my period every 3 weeks- seeing doctor on Monday. I also do not want to go on Vissane which causes worse side effects then Micronor does either. I want to be hormone&amp;drug free.”
		

For Birth Control: “So, to start I very quickly gained 80 pounds in 3 months while on Ortho Micronor birth control pill. I’m a naturally tiny 120 pounds so this was drastic. Then I got burning headaches accompanied with severe suicidal tendencies. Lastly, I was hospitalized for speech loss from the headaches. I also started drooling and went to strict mumbling for responding to people. Oh and my periods were severe on these, I later discovered even with endo I had lighter periods. Please reconsider this cancerous drug.”
		

For Endometriosis: “HORRIBLE. I'm open minded to trying meds IF a logical &amp; necessary reason. I was desperate for SOMETHING to manage my endo, acne &amp; act as birth control. I was told this was safest.

I was 26 then. Within 2 days my face broke out with crazy cystic acne. But I kept taking it cuz told it could take "8-10 weeks for my body to regulate". 

Each day got worse. Swollen, scarred, I lost my youthful tone &amp; had low self esteem. No support from gyno.

After 10 wks I went off Micronor yet my body couldn't reregulate &amp; kept producing painful acne for 1 yr.

In that time I found hope in Exposed Skincare products &amp; PRP microneedling.

Doctors are qualified, but still HUMAN. Trust your gut if it doesn't feel right. Don't wait like I did just cuz they tell you "8-10 weeks".”
		

For Birth Control: “I want to share my experience with this BC for those of you researching it. After my first pregnancy I tried this pill and was breastfeeding. This pill dried up my milk in about 2-3 months. I wasn’t taking it correctly &amp; did get pregnant again. You MUST take your BC correctly (same time EVERY single day) especially Micronor, because I truly believe it will make you more fertile by taking it randomly.. I’m giving it another try due to my age, smoking status &amp; having a new partner now. Also, I don’t have bad side effects with Micronor. I set an alarm on my phone for reminders. I’m keeping fingers crossed. Good luck. I think this pill is more appropriate if you have issues with combined hormonal pills. This one should be a last resort for a young woman..”
		

For Birth Control: “I wish I had never even heard of this pill Ortho Micronor. I switched to it because the combination pill started giving me migraines. The first month was great. And then I gained about 15 pounds overnight and broke out in cystic acne all along my jawline and chin. I’ve been off it now for two months. The weight came off as fast as I put it on, thank god. But my skin is ruined. It won’t stop breaking out. I’ve never had acne like this in my life, not even as a teenager. I wouldn’t recommend this pill to my worst enemy.”
		

For Birth Control: “Micronor did prevent pregnancy but it messed up my hormones terribly. I always had regular periods that weren't painful. After taking Micronor they stopped completely. I was on Micronor for years and my doctor assured me this was normal. Once I decided to stop Micronor my period hasn't come back. It's been 2 years. If anyone is thinking they will want to have children in the future I do no recommend this birth control as it really messed my hormones up.”
		

For Birth Control: “I have tried every type of birth control, from implants to IUDS to rings to 5 different types of combined BCPs, but Ortho Micronor is my favorite. I take generic micronor and it has the least amount of side effects of any hormonal birth control method I have ever used. It’s the only pill that doesn’t cause me mood swings. I have not had any notable extra acne, no facial hair, no weight gain. All other combined pills made me emotional, weepy, agitated and irritable. I have PMDD and Yaz actually made it worse. I will take Norethindrone for as long as I can. It’s been the best yet for me. I know every body is different, but I wish I tried this sooner, I would have saved myself a lot of painful and emotional trial and error.”
		

For Birth Control: “Two months in, very pleased with micronor birth control pill. I have been searching for a method of birth control that doesn't eliminate my sex drive or make me moody, and this one is gold so far. (Have tried ring and patch) 

My period has changed, however - it comes every 2.5 weeks, as opposed to every 4. So periods happen twice as often but are half as heavy. It's worth it to me, period is still regular and predictable, my mood feels as stable as it was when I was not taking anything, and my sex drive is the same too! 

My partner and I are very fertile (2 abortions) and so far no preggos.”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been on micronor for over a year now....and I am seriously thinking of stopping them. When I started taking them I had the common side effects until my body adjusted. About three months ago the side effects started up again and have become worse.  For preventing a pregnancy, they work well but for mood swings and cramps it’s actually making them worse for me”
		

For Birth Control: “I'm 22. I’m currently on my second pack of Micronor. I was originally on the combined pill, for awful/irregular periods but I hated the depression and body image issues it would give me. I'd gain 5-8 pounds despite the fact that I work out 3 days a week. I could see it in my belly, thighs, hips and breasts. So I got off it.

But then I became sexually active. So I started this mini pill hoping it would be better. It’s been GREAT so far!! My weight has stayed constant, my libido has been great, and it’s been GREAT for birth control (we don’t use condoms either, BUT I take my pills on time. I only missed a pill once, but I took it 10 hours later and I didn’t have sex again for 9 days). No complaints besides occasionally feeling a bit down and being A LITTLE drier down there during sex. My cycles are normally long, and this pill hasn’t changed that. I still get my periods late, which is fine. I’m hoping this pill eliminates my periods all together like it did for some.”
		

For Birth Control: “Hi. I’m reaching out because I’ve been experiencing a really weird side effect symptom when taking progesterone-only BC. Overall, side effects have been minimal... light cramping, nausea and headaches, but nothing I can’t handle. The issue is insomnia. I had the same problem when I tried a hormonal IUD. I don’t know why, and I can’t find any literature on the issue, but it seems an increase in progesterone blocks my ability to fall and stay asleep. I was taking different sleep meds to try to help, but after about a week and half, I had to go off of the Micronor. I just can’t function without adequate sleep. It’s very frustrating because otherwise, this pill would work. Has anyone else had this issue? Does it go away ?”
		

For Birth Control: “Don't let reviews scare you, everyone's body will react differently to different types of BC, that's why there are SO many types.

I have been using Micronor for 7 years.

The first few months, I had the regular side effects your body has when adjusting to the hormone changes (Cramps, bleeding, bloating, tender breasts, etc).  After 3-6 months, my body was mostly back to normal.

You need to take the pill at the same time everyday. If you don't take your pill on time, breakthrough bleeding could happen.  This pill is NOT for you if you cannot keep a consistent schedule when it comes to taking your BC.

Irregular bleeding and inconsistent periods WILL most likely happen. Personally, it made my periods better since my cramps before would cause me extreme agony.

Coming down to sex, I have used condoms, pull out, or full unprotected sex and no pregnancy. The pill is 91% effective, not 100%, so don't be upset if you get pregnant.  Having sex always opens the chance of pregnancy.”
		

For Birth Control: “This was the worst experience of my life . I went on this after having a baby and I  bleed all the time . Even 6 weeks later I couldn't have sex bc the next day I would bleed. It caused me none stop breakthrough bleeding”
		

For Birth Control: “Okay so I started this pill the first day of my period ( which is what's recommended so you won't have breakthrough bleeding) and the first month I experienced cramping, nausea  &amp; I was a bit moody.  After the first month it actually got better and I was convinced I wouldn't have anymore side effects because it how great I felt . I'm now on my 5th pack and I'm experiencing a lot of cramping and it's really annoying, I had these migraines for like 3 days straight and I've been irritable, so I guess they side effects can come &amp; go . I take it at the exact time , sometimes 10 minutes later . I'm also now experiencing vaginal drying durning sex and this wasn't a problem before . So Idk I'm debating on continuing to take It, I never been a fan of birth control but so far I haven't got pregnant and I had a baby 9 months ago btw . I'll see how it goes ... so far it it's better than the combo pill for me personally because I experienced horrible side effects with combo pills”
		

For Birth Control: “I’ve been taking micronor for around 4 months now, it’s the first birth control method I have ever taken and was prescribed it because of a close family history of blood clots (caused by yasmin) so estrogen containing methods were a no go for me. I’ve had very minor side effects, periods are always on time and regular to little bleeding, no spotting during the month and my mood has stayed stable. I have zero cramping on my period, whereas before I started the  pill I would have a few mild cramps. However, I  have started to have more common instances of dry eyes, and very very painful back pain that makes me feel as though I’m suffering from osteoporosis as well as very mild breast pain and growth. However, these are side effects of the pill and could be expected. All in all I’m thoroughly glad I made the decision to go with Micronor as the side effects are very minimal and I have not gotten pregnant.”
		

For Birth Control: “Ok so I went thru the gauntlet of my doctor giving me the generic mini pill. It was awful. I had bouts of depression, mood swings, and had nausea so bad for months! I would go into bouts of puking and shaking with chills and shaking.  Then they put me on just the name brand actual Ortho micronor, and I have been soo happy. I don't know when my period is coming, but its ok.. cuz I have no side effects. 
Just found out Ortho is stopping making this  product!!
NOT HAPPY! What are we supposed to
Do??? Please help!!!”
		

For Amenorrhea: “I have been on Micronor for 3 years. I have migraines with aura so this was the only birth control possible for me at the time. I was 16 when I first started the pill and got very light spotting at first, then everything disappeared. I didn't get my period for 2 years, no PMS, no spotting, no nothing. I didn't gain any weight, no acne, no headache. It was bliss for 2 years, then anxiety came by. I had nausea all the time and I didn't want to eat, so I lost 15 pounds in one summer (I was 18, 5'9 and 125 pounds before). Then around November last year I started having my period again. Before the pill, I was regular and had little to no PMS, but now I had crazy nausea, headache, sore breasts and bloating for a week before I got my period. Plus, it lasted longer than before and hurt so much more. Now, I get my period every 4 to 5 days and they last 6 days. I will be switching to Kyleena (an IUD) soon. I'm giving this 9 on 10 because it gave me peace of mind for 2 years and I never got pregnant.”
		

For Birth Control: “I am taking Micronor for over a year now. My doctor prescribed because I have bad migraines, which gets worse with combination pills. I was super happy in the beginning because my migraines stopped completely, but with the time the other side effects became worse and worse: my breasts are extremely swollen and painful, my husband cannot hug me, it really hurts, terrible cramps, spotting for 15 days non stop and mood swings. I had to stop unfortunately. I'm not sure if Cerazette could be better, but looks like is about the same.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “I have been on this pill for 2 months now (2 packets) I have had 2 periods  everyone month, very angry moody no patience and my boobs constantly hurt really bad. I will not be taking this anymore I am 3rd day into the pill where I’m supposed to be bleeding and nothing, but the first or second active pill I will start bleeding heavily so I am stopping I am backwards and I can’t deal with a period every 10-12 days. I know it varies per person, it is just not for me. Best of luck to everyone else and thanks for sharing your experiences”
		

For Birth Control: “I like this 'mini pill'  pill way better than the combo pills. A week after switching, I had a long period that lasted for about 12 days. However, after that - I didn't have a period again for about 5 months! When college finals stress came around, I got my period again twice, six weeks apart. Since then, things have calmed down and I don't have a period again. As far as other side effects go, when I first switched to this pill I had some headaches and cramping for the first month, but those went away as my body adjusted. The only lasting side effect is that my breasts are swollen and tender a lot more, but it's not too bad. Plus, they look more full which is not a complaint. I don't think this pill is helping my skin like the combo pills with estrogen, but it certainly isn't hurting it either.

I do use condoms with this pill to prevent pregnancy, as it's not as effective as the combo pill.”
		

For Abnormal Uterine Bleeding: “I've been on Ortho Micronor for two weeks now, it's been an absolute roller coaster.

I've had strange sensations in my legs, severe depressive episodes, mood swings, heart palpitations, headaches, and am currently experiencing what seems to be another period exactly one week after having my last one. 

I think if this continues I'm going back to the GP for a new prescription.”
		

For Birth Control: “I was on a combo pill for many years for possible endometriosis, bad periods and pregnancy protection. Only one called lutera worked like a charm for me. My obgyn said with me being 35 and a smoker, I needed to go on a minipill. She first tried me on norlyda. I had a period every 2 weeks that lasted 9-10 days and the issue never let up, despite I never was late to take pills and never missed any. I called my obgyn. I told her about my issue and I was willing to try another brand because the inactive ingredients are usually what cause problems, which she didn't realize until I explained that to her. She thought the hormones were just too low. So she tried me on Ortho Micronor and so far no breakthrough bleeding. I just got my period the other day, no pain or heavy bleeding so far. I will post another review in a few more months as to how this pill is working for me. My only complaint is I seem to get diarrhea every time I eat a full meal.”
		

For Birth Control: “HORRIBLE! First off my doctor didn't even really explain this "mini pill" to me until I researched it. But I was on this joke of medication for about 2 months after I had my son. And it made me stop producing milk and then I immediately got pregnant after . So now I have to deal with that and waste more money . Also if you are above 150lbs I recommend doubling up on birth control. Like condoms with birth control pill. The pill loses some effectiveness if you are above 150lbs.”
		

For Birth Control: “I'm 19 and have been taking this for over a month now since I have signs of endometriosis. I haven’t had any bad side effects, except for mood swings. No spotting or periods. I’ve been taking it around the same time every day, most I’ve forgotten is about 45 minutes. Despite my insurance not wanting to cover it, I definitely wouldn’t change it. At first I noticed my stomach hurting a lot as it was transitioning from combo to mini pill, but eating something with it took that away. If you’re unsure, I feel like this is your best option concerning mini pills. A lot of others have awful reviews and this has given me a seamless experience. Not pregnant either!”
		
9.0
6.8
5.9
3.7
Amenorrhea
Abnormal Uterine Bleeding
Birth Control
Endometriosis
Summary of Ortho Micronor reviews
5.9
